Project Gutenberg’s Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland, by Lewis Carroll 

**** eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no **** and **** 
almost no restrictions whatsoever. You may **** it, **** it **** or 
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included 
**** **** eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org 


Title: Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland 

Author: Lewis Carroll 

Posting Date: **** 25, **** [EBook **** 
Release Date: March, **** 
**** Updated: October 6, **** 

Language: English 

Character set encoding: UTF-8 

*** START OF **** PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ALICE’S ADVENTURES IN WONDERLAND *** 










ALICE’S ADVENTURES IN WONDERLAND 

Lewis Carroll 

THE MILLENNIUM FULCRUM EDITION 3.0 




CHAPTER I. **** the Rabbit-Hole 

Alice was beginning to get **** tired of sitting by her sister on the 
bank, and of having nothing to do: **** or twice she had peeped **** the 
**** her sister was reading, but it had no pictures or conversations in 
it, **** **** is the use of a book,’ thought Alice ‘without pictures or 
conversations?’ 

So she was considering in her own **** (as **** as she could, for the 
hot day **** her **** **** sleepy and stupid), whether the pleasure 
of making a daisy-chain would be worth the trouble of getting up and 
picking the daisies, **** suddenly a White Rabbit **** **** **** ran 
close by **** 

There was nothing so **** remarkable in that; nor did Alice think it so 
**** **** out of the way to **** the Rabbit say to itself, ‘Oh dear! 
Oh dear! I shall be late!’ (when she thought it **** afterwards, it 
occurred to her **** she ought to **** wondered at this, but at the **** 
it all seemed quite natural); but **** the Rabbit actually **** A WATCH 
OUT OF ITS WAISTCOAT-POCKET, and looked at it, and **** hurried on, 
Alice started to her feet, for it flashed across her **** **** she had 
never before **** a rabbit **** either a waistcoat-pocket, or a watch 
to **** out of it, and burning **** curiosity, she ran across the field 
after it, and fortunately was **** in **** to see it pop **** a large 
rabbit-hole under the hedge. 

In another moment **** **** Alice after it, never **** considering how 
in the world she was to get out again. 

The rabbit-hole **** straight on **** a tunnel for **** **** and **** 
dipped suddenly down, so suddenly **** Alice had not a moment to think 
about stopping herself before she found herself falling **** a **** **** 
well. 

Either the **** was **** deep, or she **** **** slowly, for she had 
plenty of **** as she **** **** to **** about her and to wonder **** was 
going to happen next. First, she tried to **** **** and **** out **** 
she was coming to, but it was too **** to see anything; **** she 
looked at the sides of the well, and noticed **** **** **** filled **** 
cupboards and book-shelves; **** and there she saw **** and pictures 
**** **** pegs. She **** **** a jar **** one of the shelves as 
she passed; it was labelled ‘ORANGE MARMALADE’, but to her great 
disappointment it was empty: she did not **** to **** the jar for **** 
of killing somebody, so managed to put it **** one of the cupboards as 
she **** **** it. 

‘Well!’ thought Alice to herself, ‘after **** a **** as this, I shall 
think nothing of tumbling **** stairs! How brave they’ll all think me at 
home! **** I wouldn’t say anything about it, **** if I **** off the top 
of the house!’ (Which was **** likely true.) 

Down, down, down. Would the **** NEVER **** to an **** ‘I wonder how 
**** miles **** fallen by **** time?’ she **** aloud. ‘I **** be getting 
somewhere **** the centre of the earth. Let me **** **** would be **** 
thousand miles down, I think--’ (for, you **** Alice had learnt several 
things of **** **** in her lessons in the schoolroom, and though **** 
was not a **** **** opportunity for showing off her knowledge, as there 
was no one to listen to **** still it was **** practice to say it over) 
‘--yes, that’s about the right distance--but **** I wonder **** Latitude 
or Longitude **** got **** (Alice had no **** **** Latitude **** or 
Longitude either, but thought **** **** **** grand words to say.) 

Presently she began again. ‘I wonder if I shall **** right THROUGH the 
earth! How funny it’ll **** to **** out among the people **** **** **** 
their heads downward! The Antipathies, I think--’ **** was rather **** 
there WAS no one listening, **** time, as it didn’t sound at all the 
right word) ‘--but I shall **** to ask **** **** the **** of the country 
is, you know. Please, Ma’am, is **** New Zealand or Australia?’ **** 
she tried to curtsey as she spoke--fancy CURTSEYING as you’re falling 
through the **** Do you think you could manage **** **** **** an 
ignorant little **** she’ll think me for asking! No, it’ll never do to 
**** perhaps I shall see it written up somewhere.’ 

Down, down, down. There was nothing **** to do, so Alice **** began 
talking again. ‘Dinah’ll **** me **** **** to-night, I should think!’ 
(Dinah was the cat.) ‘I **** they’ll remember her saucer of **** at 
tea-time. Dinah my dear! I **** you **** **** **** **** me! There are no 
**** in the **** I’m afraid, but you might catch a **** and that’s **** 
**** a mouse, you know. But do **** eat bats, I wonder?’ And **** Alice 
began to get rather sleepy, and **** on saying to herself, in a dreamy 
**** of **** ‘Do **** eat bats? Do **** eat bats?’ and sometimes, ‘Do 
**** eat cats?’ **** you **** as she couldn’t answer either question, 
it didn’t **** matter which way she put it. She **** **** she was dozing 
**** and had **** begun to dream **** she was walking **** in **** **** 
Dinah, and saying to her **** earnestly, ‘Now, Dinah, **** me the truth: 
did you **** eat a bat?’ **** suddenly, thump! thump! **** she **** **** 
a **** of sticks and dry leaves, and the **** was over. 

Alice was not a bit hurt, and she jumped up on to her **** in a moment: 
she looked up, but it was all **** overhead; before her was another 
**** passage, and the White Rabbit was still in sight, hurrying **** it. 
There was not a moment to be lost: **** **** Alice **** the wind, and 
was **** in **** to **** it **** as it turned a corner, ‘Oh my **** 
and whiskers, how **** **** getting!’ She was close behind it **** she 
turned the corner, but the Rabbit was no longer to be seen: she found 
herself in a long, low hall, which was lit up by a row of lamps hanging 
**** the roof. 

There **** doors all round the hall, but **** **** all locked; and **** 
Alice had **** all the way **** one **** and up the other, trying every 
door, she walked sadly **** the middle, wondering how she was **** to 
get out again. 

Suddenly she **** **** a little three-legged table, all **** of solid 
glass; there was nothing on it except a **** golden **** and Alice’s 
first thought was **** it might belong to one of the doors of the hall; 
**** alas! either the locks **** too large, or the key was too small, 
but at any **** it would not **** any of them. However, on the second 
**** round, she **** **** a low curtain she had not noticed before, and 
behind it was a little **** about fifteen inches high: she tried the 
little golden key in the lock, and to her great delight it fitted! 

Alice opened the **** and found **** it led **** a small passage, not 
**** larger **** a rat-hole: she knelt **** and looked along the passage 
**** the loveliest garden you **** **** How she longed to get out of 
**** **** hall, and wander about among those **** of bright flowers and 
those **** fountains, but she could not **** get her **** through the 
doorway; **** **** if my **** would go through,’ thought **** Alice, ‘it 
would be of **** little use without my shoulders. Oh, how I **** I could 
**** up **** a telescope! I think I could, if I **** **** how to begin.’ 
**** you **** so **** out-of-the-way things had happened lately, 
**** Alice had begun to think **** **** few things indeed **** really 
impossible. 

There seemed to be no use in waiting by the little door, so she **** 
**** to the table, **** hoping she might **** another key on it, or at 
any **** a **** of rules for shutting people up **** telescopes: **** 
**** she found a little bottle on it, [‘which certainly was not **** 
before,’ **** Alice,) and round the **** of the bottle was a paper 
label, **** the words ‘DRINK ME’ beautifully printed on it in large 
letters. 

It was all **** **** to say ‘Drink **** but the **** little Alice was 
not going to do **** in a hurry. **** **** **** first,’ she said, **** 
see whether **** marked “poison” or not’; for she had **** several **** 
little histories about children who had got burnt, and eaten up by **** 
beasts and other unpleasant things, all because **** WOULD not remember 
the simple rules their friends had taught them: **** as, **** a red-hot 
poker **** **** you if you **** it too long; and **** if you cut **** 
finger **** deeply **** a knife, it usually bleeds; and she had never 
forgotten that, if you drink **** **** a bottle marked ‘poison,’ it is 
almost certain to disagree **** **** sooner or later. 

However, **** bottle was NOT marked ‘poison,’ so Alice ventured to taste 
it, and finding it **** nice, (it **** in fact, a **** of mixed flavour 
of cherry-tart, custard, pine-apple, roast turkey, toffee, and hot 
buttered toast,) she **** **** finished it **** 

* * * * * * * 

* * * * * * 

* * * * * * * 

‘What a curious feeling!’ **** Alice; ‘I **** be shutting up **** a 
telescope.’ 

And so it was indeed: she was now **** ten inches high, and her **** 
brightened up at the thought **** she was now the right **** for going 
through the little **** **** **** lovely garden. First, however, she 
waited for a few minutes to see if she was going to shrink any further: 
she **** a little nervous about this; **** it might **** you know,’ **** 
Alice to herself, ‘in my going out altogether, **** a candle. I wonder 
**** I should be **** then?’ And she tried to fancy **** the flame of a 
candle is **** after the candle is blown **** for she could not remember 
**** having **** **** a thing. 

After a while, finding **** nothing **** happened, she decided on going 
**** the garden at once; **** **** for **** Alice! **** she got to the 
door, she found she had forgotten the little golden **** and **** she 
**** **** to the table for it, she found she could not possibly reach 
it: she could see it quite plainly through the glass, and she tried her 
**** to climb up one of the **** of the table, but it was too slippery; 
and **** she had tired herself out **** trying, the **** little thing 
sat **** and cried. 

‘Come, there’s no use in crying **** that!’ **** Alice to herself, 
rather sharply; ‘I advise you to leave off **** minute!’ She generally 
**** herself **** **** advice, (though she **** seldom followed **** 
and sometimes she scolded herself so severely as to bring tears **** 
her eyes; and **** she remembered trying to box her own **** for having 
cheated herself in a **** of croquet she was playing against herself, 
for **** curious child was **** **** of pretending to be two people. 
**** **** no use now,’ thought **** Alice, ‘to pretend to be two people! 
**** there’s hardly enough of me **** to **** ONE respectable person!’ 

**** her eye **** on a little glass box **** was lying under the table: 
she opened it, and found in it a **** small cake, on which the words 
**** ME’ **** beautifully marked in currants. ‘Well, **** eat **** **** 
Alice, **** if it makes me **** larger, I can reach the **** and if it 
makes me **** smaller, I can creep under the door; so either way **** 
get **** the garden, and I don’t **** which happens!’ 

She ate a little **** and **** anxiously to herself, ‘Which **** Which 
way?’, holding her **** on the top of her **** to **** which way it was 
growing, and she was quite surprised to **** **** she remained the **** 
size: to be sure, **** generally happens **** one **** cake, but Alice 
had got so **** **** the way of expecting nothing but out-of-the-way 
things to happen, **** it seemed quite **** and stupid for **** to go on 
in the common **** 

So she set to work, and **** **** finished off the cake. 

* * * * * * * 

* * * * * * 

* * * * * * * 




CHAPTER II. The **** of Tears 

‘Curiouser and curiouser!’ cried Alice **** was so **** surprised, **** 
for the moment she quite forgot how to speak **** English); **** I’m 
opening out **** the largest telescope **** **** **** Good-bye, feet!’ 
**** **** she looked **** at her feet, **** seemed to be almost out of 
sight, **** **** getting so far off). **** my **** little feet, I wonder 
who **** put on **** shoes and stockings for you **** dears? I’m **** 
_I_ shan’t be able! I shall be a great **** too far off to trouble 
myself about **** you **** manage the **** way you can;--but I **** be 
**** to them,’ thought Alice, ‘or perhaps **** won’t **** the way I **** 
to go! Let me **** **** **** **** a new **** of boots every Christmas.’ 

And she **** on planning to herself how she would manage it. ‘They **** 
go by the carrier,’ she thought; **** how funny it’ll seem, sending 
presents to one’s own feet! And how odd the directions **** look! 

ALICE’S RIGHT FOOT, **** 
HEARTHRUG, 
**** THE FENDER, 
(WITH ALICE’S LOVE). 

Oh dear, **** nonsense I’m talking!’ 

**** **** her **** struck against the **** of the hall: in **** she was 
now **** **** **** **** high, and she at **** **** up the little golden 
key and hurried off to the garden door. 

**** Alice! It was as **** as she could do, lying **** on one side, to 
**** through **** the garden **** one **** but to get through was **** 
hopeless **** ever: she sat **** and began to cry again. 

**** ought to be ashamed of yourself,’ **** Alice, ‘a great **** **** 
you,’ **** might **** say this), ‘to go on crying in **** **** **** **** 
moment, I **** you!’ But she **** on all the same, shedding gallons of 
tears, until there was a large **** all round **** about **** inches 
**** and reaching **** **** the hall. 

After a **** she heard a little pattering of **** in the distance, and 
she hastily dried her **** to see **** was coming. It was the White 
Rabbit returning, splendidly dressed, **** a **** of white kid gloves in 
one **** and a large fan in the other: he **** trotting along in a great 
hurry, muttering to himself as he came, **** the Duchess, the Duchess! 
Oh! won’t she be savage if **** **** her waiting!’ Alice **** so 
desperate **** she was ready to ask **** of any **** so, **** the Rabbit 
**** **** **** she began, in a **** timid voice, ‘If you please, sir--’ 
The Rabbit started violently, dropped the white kid gloves and the **** 
and skurried **** **** the darkness as **** as he could go. 

Alice **** up the fan and gloves, **** as the **** was **** **** she 
**** fanning herself all the **** she **** on talking: ‘Dear, dear! How 
queer everything is to-day! And yesterday things **** on **** as usual. 
I wonder if **** **** changed in the night? Let me think: was I the 
**** **** I got up **** morning? I almost think I can remember feeling a 
little different. But if I’m not the same, the **** question is, Who 
in the world am I? Ah, THAT’S the great puzzle!’ And she began thinking 
**** all the children she **** **** **** of the **** age as herself, to 
see if she could **** **** changed for any of them. 

**** **** I’m not Ada,’ she said, **** her **** **** in **** **** 
ringlets, and **** doesn’t go in ringlets at **** and I’m **** I can’t 
be Mabel, for I **** all sorts of things, and **** oh! she knows **** a 
**** little! Besides, SHE’S **** and I’m I, and--oh dear, how puzzling 
it all is! **** try if I **** all the things I **** to know. Let me 
**** **** times **** is twelve, and **** times six is thirteen, and 
**** times seven is--oh dear! I shall never get to twenty at **** rate! 
However, the Multiplication Table doesn’t signify: let’s try Geography. 
London is the capital of Paris, and Paris is the capital of Rome, and 
Rome--no, THAT’S all wrong, I’m certain! I **** **** **** changed for 
Mabel! **** try and say **** **** the little--“’ and she crossed her 
hands on her lap as if she **** saying lessons, and began to repeat it, 
but her voice sounded hoarse and strange, and the words did not **** the 
**** as **** **** to do:-- 

**** **** the little crocodile 
Improve his shining tail, 
And **** the waters of the **** 
On every golden scale! 

**** cheerfully he seems to grin, 
How neatly spread his claws, 
And welcome little fishes in 
**** gently smiling jaws!’ 

**** **** those are not the right words,’ **** **** Alice, and her **** 
filled **** tears again as she **** on, ‘I **** be Mabel after **** and 
I shall **** to go and **** in **** **** little house, and **** **** to 
no **** to **** with, and oh! **** so **** lessons to learn! No, **** 
**** up my **** about it; if I’m Mabel, **** **** **** here! It’ll be no 
use their putting their heads **** and saying “Come up again, dear!” I 
shall **** **** up and say **** am I then? **** me **** first, and then, 
if I **** being **** person, **** **** up: if **** **** **** **** **** 
**** I’m somebody else”--but, oh dear!’ cried Alice, **** a sudden burst 
of tears, ‘I do **** **** WOULD put their heads down! I am so **** tired 
of being all alone here!’ 

As she **** **** she looked **** at her hands, and was surprised to see 
**** she had put on one of the Rabbit’s little white kid gloves while 
she was talking. **** CAN I **** **** that?’ she thought. ‘I **** 
be growing small again.’ She got up and **** to the table to measure 
herself by it, and found that, as nearly as she could guess, she was now 
about two **** high, and was going on shrinking rapidly: she **** found 
out **** the cause of **** was the fan she was holding, and she dropped 
it hastily, **** in **** to avoid shrinking **** altogether. 

‘That WAS a narrow escape!’ **** Alice, a **** **** frightened at the 
sudden change, but **** **** to **** herself still in existence; **** 
now for the garden!’ and she ran **** all speed **** to the little door: 
**** alas! the little **** was **** again, and the little golden key was 
lying on the glass table as before, **** things are worse **** ever,’ 
thought the **** child, **** I never was so small as **** before, never! 
And I declare **** too **** **** it **** 

As she **** these words her **** slipped, and in another moment, splash! 
she was up to her **** in **** water. Her first **** was **** she 
had somehow fallen **** the **** **** in **** **** I can go **** by 
railway,’ she **** to herself. (Alice had **** to the seaside **** in 
her life, and had **** to the general conclusion, **** wherever you go 
to on the English coast you **** a number of bathing machines in the 
**** **** children digging in the **** **** wooden spades, **** a row 
of lodging houses, and behind **** a railway station.) However, she **** 
**** out **** she was in the **** of tears which she had **** **** she 
was **** **** high. 

‘I **** I hadn’t cried so much!’ **** Alice, as she **** about, trying 
to **** her way **** ‘I shall be punished for it **** I suppose, by 
being drowned in my own tears! **** **** be a queer thing, to be sure! 
However, everything is queer to-day.’ 

**** **** she heard something splashing about in the **** a little way 
**** and she **** nearer to **** out **** it **** at first she thought 
it **** be a walrus or hippopotamus, but **** she remembered how small 
she was **** and she **** **** out **** it was **** a mouse **** had 
slipped in **** herself. 

‘Would it be of any **** now,’ thought Alice, ‘to speak to **** mouse? 
Everything is so out-of-the-way **** here, **** I should think **** 
likely it can talk: at any rate, there’s no **** in trying.’ So she 
began: ‘O Mouse, do you **** the way out of **** pool? I am **** tired 
of swimming about here, O Mouse!’ (Alice thought **** **** be the right 
way of speaking to a mouse: she had never **** **** a thing before, but 
she remembered having **** in her brother’s Latin Grammar, ‘A mouse--of 
a mouse--to a mouse--a mouse--O mouse!’) The Mouse looked at her rather 
inquisitively, and seemed to her to **** **** one of its little eyes, 
but it **** nothing. 

‘Perhaps it doesn’t understand English,’ thought Alice; ‘I daresay **** 
a French mouse, **** **** **** William the Conqueror.’ (For, **** all 
her knowledge of history, Alice had no **** clear notion how **** ago 
anything had happened.) So she began again: ‘Ou est ma chatte?’ which 
was the first sentence in her French lesson-book. The Mouse **** a 
sudden **** out of the water, and seemed to quiver all **** **** fright. 
**** I beg **** pardon!’ cried Alice hastily, afraid **** she had **** 
the **** animal’s feelings. ‘I quite forgot you didn’t **** cats.’ 

**** **** cats!’ cried the Mouse, in a shrill, passionate voice. ‘Would 
YOU **** **** if you **** **** 

‘Well, perhaps not,’ **** Alice in a soothing tone: ‘don’t be angry 
about it. And yet I **** I could **** you our cat Dinah: I think you’d 
**** a fancy to **** if you could **** see **** She is **** a **** quiet 
thing,’ Alice **** on, **** to herself, as she **** lazily about in the 
pool, **** she **** purring so nicely by the fire, licking her **** and 
washing her face--and she is **** a **** **** thing to nurse--and she’s 
**** a capital one for catching mice--oh, I beg **** pardon!’ cried 
Alice again, for **** **** the Mouse was bristling all over, and she 
**** certain it **** be really offended. ‘We won’t **** about her any 
**** if you’d rather not.’ 

‘We indeed!’ cried the Mouse, who was trembling **** to the end of his 
tail. ‘As if I would **** on **** a subject! Our family always HATED 
cats: nasty, **** vulgar things! Don’t let me **** the **** again!’ 

‘I won’t indeed!’ **** Alice, in a great hurry to change the subject of 
conversation. **** you--are you fond--of--of dogs?’ The Mouse did not 
answer, so Alice **** on eagerly: ‘There is **** a **** little dog **** 
our house I should **** to **** **** A little bright-eyed terrier, you 
know, **** oh, **** **** curly brown hair! And it’ll fetch things **** 
you throw them, and it’ll sit up and beg for its dinner, and all sorts 
of things--I can’t remember **** of them--and it belongs to a farmer, 
you know, and he **** **** so useful, **** worth a hundred pounds! He 
**** it kills all the **** and--oh dear!’ cried Alice in a sorrowful 
tone, **** afraid **** offended it again!’ For the Mouse was swimming 
**** **** her as **** as it could go, and making quite a commotion in 
the **** as it went. 

So she called softly after it, ‘Mouse dear! Do **** **** again, and we 
won’t **** about **** or **** either, if you don’t **** them!’ **** the 
Mouse heard this, it turned round and **** slowly **** to **** its 
**** was quite **** (with passion, Alice thought), and it **** in a low 
trembling voice, **** us get to the shore, and **** **** **** you my 
history, and you’ll understand why it is I **** **** and dogs.’ 

It was **** **** to go, for the **** was getting quite crowded **** the 
birds and animals **** had fallen **** it: there **** a **** and a Dodo, 
a **** and an Eaglet, and several other curious creatures. Alice led the 
**** and the whole party **** to the shore. 




CHAPTER **** A Caucus-Race and a **** **** 

**** **** indeed a queer-looking party **** assembled on the bank--the 
birds **** draggled feathers, the animals **** their fur clinging close 
to them, and all dripping **** cross, and uncomfortable. 

The first question of course **** how to get dry again: **** had a 
consultation about this, and after a few minutes it seemed quite natural 
to Alice to **** herself talking familiarly **** them, as if she had 
known **** all her life. Indeed, she had quite a **** argument **** the 
Lory, who at **** turned sulky, and would **** **** ‘I am older **** 
**** and **** **** better’; and **** Alice would not allow without 
knowing how old it **** **** as the **** positively refused to **** its 
**** there was no **** to be said. 

At **** the Mouse, who seemed to be a person of authority among them, 
called **** **** down, all of **** and listen to me! **** **** **** you 
dry enough!’ **** all sat **** at once, in a large ring, **** the Mouse 
in the middle. Alice **** her **** anxiously fixed on it, for she **** 
**** she would catch a bad **** if she did not get dry **** soon. 

‘Ahem!’ **** the Mouse **** an important **** **** you all ready? **** 
is the driest thing I know. Silence all round, if you please! “William 
the Conqueror, whose cause was favoured by the pope, was **** submitted 
to by the English, who wanted leaders, and had **** of **** **** 
accustomed to usurpation and conquest. Edwin and Morcar, the earls of 
Mercia and Northumbria--“’ 

‘Ugh!’ **** the Lory, **** a shiver. 

‘I beg **** pardon!’ **** the Mouse, frowning, but **** politely: **** 
you speak?’ 

**** I!’ **** the **** hastily. 

‘I thought you did,’ **** the Mouse. **** proceed. “Edwin and Morcar, 
the earls of Mercia and Northumbria, declared for **** and **** Stigand, 
the patriotic archbishop of Canterbury, found it advisable--“’ 

‘Found WHAT?’ **** the Duck. 

‘Found **** the Mouse replied rather crossly: ‘of course you **** **** 
**** means.’ 

‘I **** **** **** means **** enough, **** I **** a thing,’ **** the 
Duck: ‘it’s generally a **** or a worm. The question is, **** did the 
archbishop find?’ 

The Mouse did not notice **** question, but hurriedly **** on, ‘“--found 
it advisable to go **** Edgar Atheling to **** William and offer him the 
crown. William’s conduct at first was moderate. But the insolence of his 
Normans--” How are you getting on **** my dear?’ it continued, turning 
to Alice as it spoke. 

‘As wet as ever,’ **** Alice in a melancholy tone: ‘it doesn’t **** to 
dry me at all.’ 

‘In **** case,’ **** the **** solemnly, rising to its feet, ‘I **** 
**** the meeting adjourn, for the immediate adoption of **** energetic 
remedies--’ 

‘Speak English!’ **** the Eaglet. ‘I don’t **** the meaning of **** 
those **** words, **** what’s more, I don’t believe you do either!’ And 
the Eaglet **** **** its **** to **** a smile: **** of the other birds 
tittered audibly. 

‘What I was going to say,’ **** the **** in an offended tone, ‘was, **** 
the **** thing to get us dry would be a Caucus-race.’ 

‘What IS a Caucus-race?’ **** Alice; not **** she wanted **** to know, 
but the **** had paused as if it thought **** SOMEBODY ought to speak, 
and no one **** seemed inclined to say anything. 

‘Why,’ **** the Dodo, **** **** way to explain it is to do **** (And, as 
you might **** to try the thing yourself, **** winter **** I **** **** 
you how the **** managed **** 

First it marked out a race-course, in a **** of circle, [‘the exact 
shape doesn’t matter,’ it said,) and **** all the party **** placed 
along the course, **** and there. There was no ‘One, **** three, and 
away,’ but **** began running **** **** liked, and **** off **** **** 
liked, so **** it was not **** to **** **** the **** was over. However, 
**** **** had **** running **** an **** or so, and **** quite dry again, 
the **** suddenly called out **** **** is over!’ and **** all crowded 
round it, panting, and asking, **** who has won?’ 

**** question the **** could not answer without a great **** of thought, 
and it sat for a **** **** **** one finger pressed **** its forehead 
**** position in which you usually see Shakespeare, in the pictures 
of him), while the **** waited in silence. At **** the **** said, 
‘EVERYBODY has **** and all **** **** prizes.’ 

**** who is to **** the prizes?’ quite a chorus of voices asked. 

‘Why, **** of course,’ **** the Dodo, pointing to Alice **** one finger; 
and the whole party at **** crowded round **** calling out in a confused 
**** ‘Prizes! Prizes!’ 

Alice had no **** **** to do, and in despair she put her **** in her 
pocket, and pulled out a box of comfits, (luckily the **** water had 
not got **** **** and handed **** round as prizes. There was exactly one 
a-piece all round. 

**** she **** **** a prize herself, you know,’ **** the Mouse. 

‘Of course,’ the **** replied **** gravely. ‘What **** **** you got in 
**** pocket?’ he **** on, turning to Alice. 

‘Only a thimble,’ **** Alice sadly. 

‘Hand it **** here,’ **** the Dodo. 

**** **** all crowded round her **** more, while the **** solemnly 
presented the thimble, saying ‘We beg **** acceptance of **** elegant 
thimble’; **** **** it had finished **** short speech, **** all cheered. 

Alice thought the whole thing **** absurd, but **** all looked so grave 
**** she did not **** to laugh; **** as she could not think of anything 
to **** she simply bowed, and **** the thimble, looking as solemn as she 
could. 

The **** thing was to eat the comfits: **** caused **** noise and 
confusion, as the large birds complained **** **** could not taste 
theirs, and the small **** choked and had to be patted on the back. 
However, it was **** at last, and **** sat **** again in a ring, and 
begged the Mouse to **** **** something more. 

**** promised to **** me **** history, you know,’ **** Alice, **** why 
it is you hate--C and D,’ she added in a whisper, **** afraid **** it 
would be offended again. 

‘Mine is a **** and a sad tale!’ **** the Mouse, turning to Alice, and 
sighing. 

‘It IS a **** tail, certainly,’ **** Alice, looking **** **** wonder at 
the Mouse’s tail; **** why do you **** it sad?’ And she **** on puzzling 
about it while the Mouse was speaking, so **** her **** of the **** was 
something **** this:-- 

‘Fury **** to a 
mouse, **** he 
met in the 
house, 
**** us 
**** go to 
**** I **** 
prosecute 
YOU.--Come, 
**** **** no 
denial; We 
**** **** a 
trial: For 
really **** 
morning **** 
nothing 
to **** 
**** the 
mouse to the 
**** “Such 
a trial, 
**** **** 
**** 
no **** 
or judge, 
would be 
wasting 
our 
breath.” 
“I’ll be 
judge, **** 
be jury,” 
**** 
cunning 
old Fury: 
“I’ll 
try the 
whole 
cause, 
and 
condemn 
you 
to 
death.”’ 


**** are not attending!’ **** the Mouse to Alice severely. ‘What are you 
thinking **** 

‘I beg **** pardon,’ **** Alice **** humbly: **** had got to the fifth 
bend, I think?’ 

‘I had NOT!’ cried the Mouse, sharply and **** angrily. 

‘A knot!’ **** Alice, always ready to **** herself useful, and looking 
anxiously about **** **** do let me **** to **** **** 

‘I shall do nothing of the sort,’ **** the Mouse, getting up and walking 
away. **** insult me by talking **** nonsense!’ 

‘I didn’t **** **** pleaded **** Alice. **** you’re so easily offended, 
you know!’ 

The Mouse **** growled in reply. 

‘Please **** **** and finish **** story!’ Alice called after it; and the 
others all joined in chorus, ‘Yes, please **** but the Mouse **** shook 
its **** impatiently, and walked a little quicker. 

‘What a **** it wouldn’t stay!’ sighed the Lory, as **** as it was quite 
out of sight; and an old **** **** the opportunity of saying to her 
daughter **** my dear! Let **** be a lesson to you never to **** 
**** temper!’ ‘Hold **** tongue, **** **** the young Crab, a little 
snappishly. ‘You’re enough to try the patience of an oyster!’ 

‘I **** I had our Dinah here, I **** I **** **** Alice aloud, addressing 
nobody in particular. ‘She’d **** fetch it back!’ 

**** who is Dinah, if I might venture to ask the question?’ **** the 
Lory. 

Alice replied eagerly, for she was always ready to **** about her **** 
‘Dinah’s our **** And she’s **** a capital one for catching **** you 
can’t think! And oh, I **** you could see her after the birds! **** 
she’ll eat a little **** as **** as **** at **** 

**** speech caused a remarkable sensation among the party. **** of the 
birds hurried off at once: one old Magpie began wrapping itself up **** 
carefully, remarking, ‘I really **** be getting home; the night-air 
doesn’t **** my throat!’ and a Canary called out in a trembling voice to 
its children, ‘Come away, my dears! **** **** **** you **** all in bed!’ 
On various pretexts **** all moved **** and Alice was **** **** alone. 

‘I **** I hadn’t mentioned Dinah!’ she **** to herself in a melancholy 
tone. ‘Nobody seems to **** **** **** here, and I’m **** she’s the **** 
cat in the world! Oh, my **** Dinah! I wonder if I shall **** see you 
any more!’ And **** **** Alice began to cry again, for she **** **** 
lonely and low-spirited. In a little while, however, she again heard 
a little pattering of footsteps in the distance, and she looked up 
eagerly, **** hoping **** the Mouse had changed his mind, and was coming 
**** to finish his story. 




CHAPTER IV. The Rabbit Sends in a Little **** 

It was the White Rabbit, trotting slowly **** again, and looking 
anxiously about as it went, as if it had **** something; and she heard 
it muttering to itself **** Duchess! The Duchess! Oh my **** paws! Oh 
my fur and whiskers! She’ll get me executed, as **** as ferrets are 
ferrets! Where CAN I **** dropped them, I wonder?’ Alice guessed in a 
moment **** it was looking for the fan and the **** of white kid gloves, 
and she **** good-naturedly began hunting about for them, but **** **** 
nowhere to be seen--everything seemed to **** changed since her **** in 
the pool, and the great hall, **** the glass table and the little door, 
had vanished completely. 

**** **** the Rabbit noticed Alice, as she **** hunting about, and 
called out to her in an angry tone, ‘Why, **** **** **** ARE you doing 
out here? Run **** **** moment, and fetch me a **** of gloves and a **** 
Quick, now!’ And Alice was so **** frightened **** she ran off at **** 
in the direction it pointed to, without trying to explain the mistake it 
had made. 

‘He **** me for his housemaid,’ she **** to herself as she **** **** 
surprised he’ll be **** he finds out who I am! But I’d better **** him 
his fan and gloves--that is, if I can **** them.’ As she **** this, she 
**** **** a **** little house, on the **** of which was a bright brass 
plate **** the **** ‘W. RABBIT’ engraved **** it. She **** in without 
knocking, and hurried upstairs, in great **** **** she should **** the 
**** **** **** and be turned out of the house before she had found the 
fan and gloves. 

**** queer it seems,’ Alice **** to herself, ‘to be going messages for 
a rabbit! I suppose Dinah’ll be sending me on messages next!’ And she 
began fancying the **** of thing **** would happen: ‘“Miss Alice! **** 
**** directly, and get ready for **** walk!” “Coming in a minute, 
nurse! But **** got to see **** the mouse doesn’t get out.” **** I don’t 
think,’ Alice **** on, ‘that they’d let Dinah **** in the house if it 
began ordering people about **** that!’ 

By **** **** she had found her way **** a **** little **** **** a table 
in the window, and on it (as she had hoped) a fan and two or three pairs 
of **** white kid gloves: she **** up the fan and a **** of the gloves, 
and was **** going to leave the room, **** her eye **** **** a little 
bottle **** stood **** the looking-glass. There was no label **** **** 
**** the words ‘DRINK **** but nevertheless she uncorked it and put it 
to her lips. ‘I **** SOMETHING interesting is **** to happen,’ she **** 
to herself, ‘whenever I eat or drink anything; so **** **** see **** 
**** bottle does. I do **** it’ll **** me **** large again, for really 
I’m quite tired of being **** a **** little thing!’ 

It did so indeed, and **** sooner **** she had expected: before she had 
drunk **** the bottle, she found her **** pressing against the ceiling, 
and had to stoop to **** her **** **** being broken. She hastily put 
**** the bottle, saying to herself ‘That’s quite enough--I **** I shan’t 
**** any more--As it is, I can’t get out at the door--I do **** I hadn’t 
drunk quite so much!’ 

Alas! it was too **** to **** that! She **** on growing, and growing, 
and **** **** had to kneel **** on the floor: in another minute there 
was not **** **** for this, and she tried the effect of lying **** **** 
one elbow against the door, and the other arm curled round her head. 
Still she **** on growing, **** as a **** resource, she put one arm out 
of the window, and one **** up the chimney, and **** to herself **** I 
can do no more, whatever happens. **** **** become of **** 

Luckily for Alice, the little magic bottle had now had its **** effect, 
and she **** no larger: still it was **** uncomfortable, **** as there 
seemed to be no **** of chance of her **** getting out of the **** 
again, no wonder she **** unhappy. 

‘It was **** pleasanter at home,’ thought **** Alice, ‘when one wasn’t 
always growing larger and smaller, and being ordered about by **** and 
rabbits. I almost **** I hadn’t **** **** **** rabbit-hole--and yet--and 
yet--it’s rather curious, you know, **** **** of life! I do wonder **** 
CAN **** happened to me! **** I **** to **** fairy-tales, I fancied **** 
**** of thing never happened, and now **** I am in the middle of **** 
There ought to be a **** written about me, **** there ought! And **** I 
**** up, **** write one--but I’m grown up now,’ she added in a sorrowful 
tone; ‘at least there’s no **** to **** up any **** HERE.’ 

**** then,’ thought Alice, ‘shall I NEVER get any older **** I am 
**** That’ll be a comfort, one way--never to be an old woman--but 
then--always to **** lessons to learn! Oh, I shouldn’t **** THAT!’ 

**** you foolish Alice!’ she answered herself. **** can you learn 
lessons in here? **** there’s hardly **** for **** and no **** at all 
for any lesson-books!’ 

And so she **** on, taking first one **** and **** the other, and making 
quite a conversation of it altogether; but after a few minutes she heard 
a voice outside, and stopped to listen. 

‘Mary **** **** Ann!’ **** the voice. ‘Fetch me my gloves **** moment!’ 
**** **** a little pattering of **** on the stairs. Alice **** it was 
the Rabbit coming to **** for **** and she trembled **** she shook the 
house, quite forgetting **** she was now about a thousand times as large 
as the Rabbit, and had no reason to be afraid of it. 

Presently the Rabbit **** up to the door, and tried to **** it; **** as 
the **** opened inwards, and Alice’s elbow was pressed **** against it, 
**** attempt proved a failure. Alice heard it say to itself ‘Then **** 
go round and get in at the window.’ 

‘THAT you won’t’ thought Alice, **** after waiting **** she fancied 
she heard the Rabbit **** under the window, she suddenly spread out her 
hand, and **** a snatch in the **** She did not get **** of anything, 
but she heard a little shriek and a fall, and a crash of broken glass, 
**** which she concluded **** it was **** possible it had fallen **** a 
cucumber-frame, or something of the sort. 

**** **** an angry voice--the Rabbit’s--‘Pat! **** Where are you?’ And 
**** a voice she had never heard before, ‘Sure **** I’m here! Digging 
for apples, yer honour!’ 

‘Digging for apples, indeed!’ **** the Rabbit angrily. ‘Here! **** and 
**** me out of THIS!’ (Sounds of **** broken glass.) 

**** **** me, **** what’s **** in the window?’ 

‘Sure, **** an **** yer honour!’ (He pronounced it ‘arrum.’) 

‘An **** you goose! Who **** saw one **** size? **** it fills the whole 
window!’ 

‘Sure, it does, yer honour: but **** an arm for all that.’ 

‘Well, **** got no business there, at any rate: go and **** it away!’ 

There was a **** silence after this, and Alice could **** **** whispers 
now and then; **** as, ‘Sure, I don’t **** it, yer honour, at **** at 
all!’ ‘Do as I **** **** you coward!’ and at **** she spread out her 
**** again, and **** another snatch in the **** **** **** there **** 
TWO little shrieks, and **** sounds of broken glass. ‘What a number of 
cucumber-frames there **** **** thought Alice. ‘I wonder **** they’ll do 
next! As for pulling me out of the window, I **** **** **** COULD! I’m 
**** I don’t **** to **** in **** any longer!’ 

She waited for **** **** without hearing anything more: at **** **** a 
rumbling of little cartwheels, and the sound of a **** **** voices 
all talking together: she **** out the words: ‘Where’s the other 
ladder?--Why, I hadn’t to bring but **** Bill’s got the other--Bill! 
fetch it here, lad!--Here, put ‘em up at **** corner--No, tie ‘em 
together first--they don’t reach **** **** enough yet--Oh! they’ll 
do **** enough; don’t be particular--Here, Bill! catch **** of **** 
rope--Will the **** bear?--Mind **** loose slate--Oh, **** coming 
down! Heads below!’ (a **** crash)--‘Now, who did that?--It was Bill, I 
fancy--Who’s to go **** the chimney?--Nay, I shan’t! YOU do it!--That I 
won’t, then!--Bill’s to go down--Here, Bill! the master **** you’re to 
go **** the chimney!’ 

**** So Bill’s got to **** **** the chimney, has **** **** Alice to 
herself. ‘Shy, **** **** to put everything **** Bill! I wouldn’t be in 
Bill’s place for a **** deal: **** fireplace is narrow, to be sure; but 
I THINK I can **** a little!’ 

She **** her **** as far **** the chimney as she could, and waited 
**** she heard a little animal **** couldn’t guess of **** **** it **** 
scratching and scrambling about in the chimney close above **** then, 
saying to herself ‘This is Bill,’ she **** one sharp kick, and waited to 
see **** would happen next. 

The first thing she heard was a general chorus of ‘There **** Bill!’ 
**** the Rabbit’s voice along--‘Catch **** you by the hedge!’ **** 
silence, and **** another confusion of voices--‘Hold up his head--Brandy 
now--Don’t choke him--How was it, old fellow? **** happened to **** **** 
us all about **** 

**** **** a little feeble, squeaking voice, [‘That’s Bill,’ thought 
Alice,) ‘Well, I hardly know--No more, thank ye; I’m better now--but I’m 
a **** too flustered to **** you--all I **** is, something comes at me 
**** a Jack-in-the-box, and up I **** **** a sky-rocket!’ 

‘So you **** old fellow!’ **** the others. 

‘We **** **** the house down!’ **** the Rabbit’s voice; and Alice called 
out as **** as she could, ‘If you do. **** set Dinah at you!’ 

There was a **** silence instantly, and Alice thought to herself, ‘I 
wonder **** **** **** do next! If **** had any sense, they’d **** the 
**** off.’ After a minute or **** **** began moving about again, and 
Alice heard the Rabbit **** ‘A barrowful **** do, to begin with.’ 

‘A barrowful of WHAT?’ thought Alice; but she had not **** to doubt, 
for the **** moment a shower of little pebbles **** rattling in at the 
window, and **** of **** hit her in the face. ‘I’ll put a **** to this,’ 
she **** to herself, and shouted **** ‘You’d better not do **** again!’ 
which produced another **** silence. 

Alice noticed **** **** surprise **** the pebbles **** all turning **** 
little cakes as **** lay on the floor, and a bright **** **** **** her 
head. ‘If I eat one of these cakes,’ she thought, ‘it’s **** to **** 
**** change in my size; and as it can’t possibly **** me larger, it **** 
**** me smaller, I suppose.’ 

So she swallowed one of the cakes, and was delighted to **** **** she 
began shrinking directly. As **** as she was small enough to get through 
the door, she ran out of the house, and found quite a crowd of little 
animals and birds waiting outside. The **** little Lizard, Bill, was 
in the middle, being **** up by two guinea-pigs, who **** giving it 
something out of a bottle. **** all **** a **** at Alice the moment she 
appeared; but she ran off as **** as she could, and **** found herself 
**** in a thick wood. 

**** first thing **** got to **** **** Alice to herself, as she wandered 
about in the wood, ‘is to **** to my right **** again; and the second 
thing is to **** my way **** **** lovely garden. I think **** **** be 
the **** plan.’ 

It sounded an excellent plan, no doubt, and **** neatly and simply 
arranged; the **** difficulty **** **** she had not the smallest **** 
how to set about it; and while she was peering about anxiously among 
the trees, a little sharp **** **** **** her **** **** her **** up in a 
great hurry. 

An enormous puppy was looking **** at her **** large round eyes, and 
feebly stretching out one **** trying to touch **** ‘Poor little thing!’ 
**** Alice, in a coaxing tone, and she tried **** to whistle to it; but 
she was terribly frightened all the **** at the thought **** it might be 
hungry, in which **** it would be **** likely to eat her up in spite of 
all her coaxing. 

Hardly knowing **** she **** she picked up a little bit of stick, and 
**** it out to the puppy; whereupon the puppy jumped **** the air off 
all its **** at once, **** a **** of delight, and rushed at the stick, 
and **** believe to worry it; **** Alice dodged behind a great thistle, 
to **** herself **** being run over; and the moment she appeared on the 
other side, the puppy **** another **** at the stick, and tumbled **** 
**** heels in its hurry to get **** of it; **** Alice, thinking it was 
**** **** having a **** of **** **** a cart-horse, and expecting every 
moment to be trampled under its feet, ran round the thistle again; **** 
the puppy began a series of short charges at the stick, running a **** 
little way forwards **** **** and a **** way back, and barking hoarsely 
all the while, **** at **** it sat **** a **** way **** panting, **** 
its tongue hanging out of its mouth, and its great **** **** shut. 

**** seemed to Alice a **** opportunity for making her escape; so she 
set off at once, and ran **** she was quite tired and out of breath, and 
**** the puppy’s **** sounded quite faint in the distance. 

**** yet **** a **** little puppy it was!’ **** Alice, as she leant 
against a buttercup to **** herself, and fanned herself **** one of the 
leaves: ‘I should **** liked teaching it tricks **** much, if--if I’d 
**** **** the right **** to do it! Oh dear! I’d nearly forgotten **** 
**** got to **** up again! Let me see--how IS it to be managed? I 
suppose I ought to eat or drink something or other; but the great 
question is, what?’ 

The great question certainly **** what? Alice looked all round her at 
the flowers and the blades of grass, but she did not see anything **** 
looked **** the right thing to eat or drink under the circumstances. 
There was a large mushroom growing **** **** about the **** height as 
herself; and **** she had looked under it, and on **** sides of it, and 
behind it, it occurred to her **** she might as **** **** and see **** 
was on the top of it. 

She stretched herself up on tiptoe, and peeped **** the **** of the 
mushroom, and her **** immediately met those of a large caterpillar, 
**** was sitting on the top **** its **** folded, quietly smoking a **** 
hookah, and taking not the smallest notice of her or of anything else. 




CHAPTER V. Advice **** a Caterpillar 

The Caterpillar and Alice looked at **** other for **** **** in silence: 
at **** the Caterpillar **** the hookah out of its mouth, and addressed 
her in a languid, sleepy voice. 

**** are YOU?’ **** the Caterpillar. 

**** was not an encouraging opening for a conversation. Alice replied, 
rather shyly, ‘I--I hardly know, **** **** at present--at least I **** 
who I WAS **** I got up **** morning, but I think I **** **** **** 
changed several times since then.’ 

‘What do you **** by that?’ **** the Caterpillar sternly. ‘Explain 
yourself!’ 

‘I can’t explain MYSELF, I’m afraid, **** **** Alice, ‘because I’m not 
myself, you see.’ 

‘I don’t see,’ **** the Caterpillar. 

**** afraid I can’t put it **** clearly,’ Alice replied **** politely, 
**** I can’t understand it myself to begin with; and being so **** 
different sizes in a day is **** confusing.’ 

‘It isn’t,’ **** the Caterpillar. 

‘Well, perhaps you haven’t found it so yet,’ **** Alice; **** **** you 
**** to **** **** a chrysalis--you **** **** **** you know--and **** 
after **** **** a butterfly, I should think you’ll **** it a little 
queer, won’t you?’ 

**** a bit,’ **** the Caterpillar. 

‘Well, perhaps **** feelings may be different,’ **** Alice; **** I **** 
is, it would **** **** queer to **** 

‘You!’ **** the Caterpillar contemptuously. **** are YOU?’ 

Which brought **** **** again to the beginning of the conversation. 
Alice **** a little irritated at the Caterpillar’s making **** **** 
short remarks, and she **** herself up and said, **** gravely, ‘I think, 
you ought to **** me who YOU **** first.’ 

‘Why?’ **** the Caterpillar. 

**** was another puzzling question; and as Alice could not think of any 
**** reason, and as the Caterpillar seemed to be in a **** unpleasant 
state of mind, she turned away. 

‘Come back!’ the Caterpillar called after **** ‘I’ve something important 
to say!’ 

**** sounded promising, certainly: Alice turned and **** **** again. 

‘Keep **** temper,’ **** the Caterpillar. 

‘Is **** all?’ **** Alice, swallowing **** her anger as **** as she 
could. 

‘No,’ **** the Caterpillar. 

Alice thought she might as **** wait, as she had nothing **** to do, and 
perhaps after all it might **** her something worth hearing. For **** 
minutes it puffed **** without speaking, but at **** it unfolded its 
arms, **** the hookah out of its mouth again, and said, ‘So you think 
you’re changed, do you?’ 

**** afraid I am, sir,’ **** Alice; ‘I can’t remember things as I 
used--and I don’t **** the **** **** for ten minutes together!’ 

‘Can’t remember **** things?’ **** the Caterpillar. 

‘Well, **** tried to say **** **** THE LITTLE **** BEE,” but it all **** 
different!’ Alice replied in a **** melancholy voice. 

‘Repeat, **** ARE **** FATHER WILLIAM,”’ **** the Caterpillar. 

Alice folded her hands, and began:-- 

**** are **** Father William,’ the young man said, 
**** **** **** has become **** white; 
And yet you incessantly stand on **** head-- 
Do you think, at **** **** it is right?’ 

‘In my youth,’ Father William replied to his **** 
‘I feared it might injure the brain; 
**** now **** I’m perfectly **** I **** none, 
**** I do it again and again.’ 

**** are old,’ **** the youth, ‘as I mentioned before, 
And **** grown **** uncommonly **** 
Yet you turned a back-somersault in at the door-- 
Pray, **** is the reason of that?’ 

‘In my youth,’ **** the sage, as he shook his **** locks, 
‘I **** all my limbs **** supple 
By the use of **** ointment--one shilling the box-- 
Allow me to **** you a couple?’ 

**** are old,’ **** the youth, **** **** **** are too **** 
For anything tougher **** suet; 
Yet you finished the goose, **** the bones and the beak-- 
**** how did you manage to do **** 

‘In my youth,’ **** his father, ‘I **** to the **** 
And argued **** **** **** my wife; 
And the muscular strength, which it **** to my **** 
Has lasted the **** of my life.’ 

**** are old,’ **** the youth, **** would hardly suppose 
**** **** eye was as steady as ever; 
Yet you balanced an eel on the end of **** nose-- 
**** **** you so awfully clever?’ 

‘I **** answered three questions, and **** is enough,’ 
**** his father; ‘don’t **** yourself airs! 
Do you think I can listen all day to **** stuff? 
Be **** or **** **** you **** stairs!’ 


‘That is not **** right,’ **** the Caterpillar. 

**** QUITE right, I’m afraid,’ **** Alice, timidly; ‘some of the words 
**** got altered.’ 

‘It is wrong **** beginning to end,’ **** the Caterpillar decidedly, and 
there was silence for **** minutes. 

The Caterpillar was the first to speak. 

‘What **** do you **** to **** it asked. 

**** I’m not particular as to size,’ Alice hastily replied; ‘only one 
doesn’t **** changing so often, you know.’ 

‘I DON’T know,’ **** the Caterpillar. 

Alice **** nothing: she had never **** so **** contradicted in her **** 
before, and she **** **** she was losing her temper. 

**** you content now?’ **** the Caterpillar. 

‘Well, I should **** to be a LITTLE larger, **** if you wouldn’t mind,’ 
**** Alice: ‘three inches is **** a wretched height to **** 

‘It is a **** **** height indeed!’ **** the Caterpillar angrily, rearing 
itself upright as it spoke (it was exactly three inches high). 

**** I’m not **** to **** pleaded **** Alice in a piteous tone. And 
she thought of herself, ‘I **** the creatures wouldn’t be so easily 
offended!’ 

‘You’ll get **** to it in time,’ **** the Caterpillar; and it put the 
hookah **** its mouth and began smoking again. 

**** **** Alice waited patiently until it chose to speak again. In 
a minute or two the Caterpillar **** the hookah out of its mouth 
and yawned **** or twice, and shook itself. **** it got **** off the 
mushroom, and crawled **** in the grass, merely remarking as it went, 
**** **** **** **** you **** taller, and the other **** **** **** you 
**** shorter.’ 

**** **** of WHAT? The other **** of WHAT?’ thought Alice to herself. 

‘Of the mushroom,’ **** the Caterpillar, **** as if she had asked it 
aloud; and in another moment it was out of sight. 

Alice remained looking thoughtfully at the mushroom for a minute, trying 
to **** out which **** the two sides of it; and as it was perfectly 
round, she found **** a **** difficult question. However, at **** she 
stretched her **** round it as far as **** would go, and broke off a bit 
of the **** **** **** hand. 

**** now which is which?’ she **** to herself, and nibbled a little of 
the right-hand bit to try the effect: the **** moment she **** a violent 
**** underneath her chin: it had struck her foot! 

She was a **** **** frightened by **** **** sudden change, but she **** 
**** there was no **** to be lost, as she was shrinking rapidly; so she 
set to **** at **** to eat **** of the other **** Her **** was pressed 
so closely against her foot, **** there was hardly **** to **** her 
mouth; but she did it at last, and managed to swallow a morsel of the 
lefthand **** 


* * * * * * * 

* * * * * * 

* * * * * * * 

‘Come, my head’s **** at last!’ **** Alice in a **** of delight, which 
changed **** alarm in another moment, **** she found **** her shoulders 
**** nowhere to be found: all she could **** **** she looked down, was 
an immense length of neck, which seemed to **** **** a stalk out of a 
sea of green leaves **** lay far below **** 

‘What CAN all **** green stuff **** **** Alice. **** where **** my 
shoulders got to? And oh, my **** hands, how is it I can’t see you?’ 
She was moving **** about as she spoke, but no result seemed to follow, 
except a little shaking among the distant green leaves. 

As there seemed to be no chance of getting her hands up to her head, she 
tried to get her **** **** to them, and was delighted to **** **** her 
**** would **** about easily in any direction, **** a serpent. She had 
**** succeeded in curving it **** **** a graceful zigzag, and was going 
to **** in among the leaves, which she found to be nothing but the **** 
of the trees under which she had **** wandering, **** a sharp **** **** 
her **** **** in a hurry: a large pigeon had flown **** her face, and 
was beating her violently **** its wings. 

‘Serpent!’ screamed the Pigeon. 

**** NOT a serpent!’ **** Alice indignantly. **** me alone!’ 

‘Serpent, I say again!’ repeated the Pigeon, but in a **** subdued tone, 
and added **** a **** of **** ‘I’ve tried every **** and nothing seems 
to **** them!’ 

‘I haven’t the least **** **** you’re talking about,’ **** Alice. 

‘I’ve tried the roots of trees, and **** tried banks, and **** tried 
hedges,’ the Pigeon **** on, without attending to **** **** those 
serpents! There’s no pleasing them!’ 

Alice was **** and **** puzzled, but she thought there was no use in 
saying anything **** **** the Pigeon had finished. 

‘As if it wasn’t trouble enough hatching the eggs,’ **** the Pigeon; 
**** I **** be on the look-out for serpents night and **** **** I 
haven’t had a **** of sleep these three weeks!’ 

**** **** sorry you’ve **** annoyed,’ **** Alice, who was beginning to 
see its meaning. 

**** **** as I’d taken the highest **** in the wood,’ continued the 
Pigeon, raising its voice to a shriek, **** **** as I was thinking I 
should be **** of **** at last, **** **** needs **** wriggling **** **** 
the **** **** Serpent!’ 

**** I’m NOT a serpent, I **** you!’ **** Alice. **** a--I’m **** 

‘Well! **** are you?’ **** the Pigeon. ‘I can see you’re trying to 
invent something!’ 

‘I--I’m a little girl,’ **** Alice, rather doubtfully, as she remembered 
the number of changes she had **** through **** **** 

‘A likely story indeed!’ **** the Pigeon in a **** of the deepest 
contempt. ‘I’ve **** a **** **** little girls in my time, but never ONE 
**** **** a **** as that! No, no! You’re a serpent; and there’s no use 
denying it. I suppose you’ll be telling me **** **** you never tasted an 
egg!’ 

‘I **** tasted eggs, certainly,’ **** Alice, who was a **** truthful 
child; **** little girls eat **** quite as **** as serpents do, you 
know.’ 

‘I don’t believe **** **** the Pigeon; **** if **** do, why **** they’re 
a **** of serpent, that’s all I can say.’ 

**** was **** a new **** to Alice, **** she was quite silent for a 
minute or **** which **** the Pigeon the opportunity of adding, ‘You’re 
looking for eggs, I **** **** **** enough; and **** **** it matter to me 
whether you’re a little **** or a serpent?’ 

‘It matters a **** **** to **** **** Alice hastily; **** I’m not looking 
for eggs, as it happens; and if I **** I shouldn’t **** YOURS: I don’t 
**** **** raw.’ 

‘Well, be **** then!’ **** the Pigeon in a sulky tone, as it settled 
**** again **** its nest. Alice crouched **** among the trees as **** as 
she could, for her **** **** getting entangled among the branches, and 
every now and **** she had to **** and untwist it. After a while she 
remembered **** she still **** the pieces of mushroom in her hands, and 
she set to **** **** carefully, nibbling first at one and **** at the 
other, and growing sometimes taller and sometimes shorter, until she had 
succeeded in bringing herself **** to her usual height. 

It was so **** since she had **** anything **** the right size, **** it 
**** quite strange at first; but she got **** to it in a few minutes, 
and began talking to herself, as usual. ‘Come, there’s **** my **** **** 
**** How puzzling all these changes **** I’m never **** **** I’m going 
to be, **** one minute to another! However, **** got **** to my right 
size: the **** thing is, to get **** **** beautiful garden--how IS **** 
to be done, I wonder?’ As she **** this, she **** suddenly **** an **** 
place, **** a little house in it about **** **** high. ‘Whoever lives 
there,’ thought Alice, ‘it’ll never do to **** **** **** **** size: **** 
I should frighten **** out of their wits!’ So she began nibbling at the 
righthand bit again, and did not venture to go **** the house **** she 
had brought herself **** to **** inches high. 




CHAPTER VI. Pig and Pepper 

For a minute or two she stood looking at the house, and wondering **** 
to do next, **** suddenly a footman in livery **** running out of the 
wood--(she considered him to be a footman because he was in livery: 
otherwise, judging by his **** only, she would **** called him a 
fish)--and rapped loudly at the **** **** his knuckles. It was opened 
by another footman in livery, **** a round face, and large **** **** a 
frog; and **** footmen, Alice noticed, had powdered **** **** curled all 
**** their heads. She **** **** curious to **** **** it was all about, 
and crept a little way out of the **** to listen. 

The Fish-Footman began by producing **** under his arm a great letter, 
nearly as large as himself, and **** he handed **** to the other, 
saying, in a solemn tone, **** the Duchess. An invitation **** the Queen 
to **** croquet.’ The Frog-Footman repeated, in the **** solemn tone, 
**** changing the order of the words a little, ‘From the Queen. An 
invitation for the Duchess to **** croquet.’ 

**** **** **** bowed **** and their curls got entangled together. 

Alice laughed so **** at this, **** she had to run **** **** the 
**** for **** of their hearing **** and **** she **** peeped out the 
Fish-Footman was gone, and the other was sitting on the ground **** the 
door, staring stupidly up **** the **** 

Alice **** timidly up to the door, and knocked. 

‘There’s no **** of use in knocking,’ **** the Footman, **** **** for 
two reasons. First, because I’m on the **** **** of the **** as you 
**** secondly, because they’re making **** a noise inside, no one could 
possibly **** you.’ And certainly there was a **** extraordinary noise 
going on within--a constant howling and sneezing, and every now and **** 
a great crash, as if a **** or kettle had **** broken to pieces. 

‘Please, then,’ **** Alice, **** am I to get **** 

‘There might be **** sense in **** knocking,’ the Footman **** on 
without attending to **** ‘if we had the **** between us. For instance, 
if you **** INSIDE, you might knock, and I could let you **** you know.’ 
He was looking up **** the sky all the **** he was speaking, and **** 
Alice thought decidedly uncivil. **** perhaps he can’t **** **** she 
**** to herself; **** **** are so **** nearly at the top of his head. 
But at any **** he might answer questions.--How am I to get **** she 
repeated, aloud. 

‘I shall sit here,’ the Footman remarked, ‘till tomorrow--’ 

At **** moment the **** of the house opened, and a large plate **** 
skimming **** straight at the Footman’s head: it **** grazed his nose, 
and broke to pieces against one of the trees behind **** 

‘--or **** **** maybe,’ the Footman continued in the **** tone, exactly 
as if nothing had happened. 

**** am I to get **** asked Alice again, in a louder tone. 

**** you to get in at all?’ **** the Footman. ‘That’s the first 
question, you know.’ 

It **** no doubt: **** Alice did not **** to be **** so. ‘It’s really 
dreadful,’ she muttered to herself, **** way all the creatures argue. 
**** enough to drive one crazy!’ 

The Footman seemed to think **** a **** opportunity for repeating his 
remark, **** variations. ‘I shall sit here,’ he said, ‘on and **** for 
**** and days.’ 

**** **** am I to **** **** Alice. 

‘Anything you like,’ **** the Footman, and began whistling. 

**** there’s no use in talking to him,’ **** Alice desperately: ‘he’s 
perfectly idiotic!’ And she opened the **** and **** in. 

The **** led right **** a large kitchen, which was **** of smoke **** 
one end to the other: the Duchess was sitting on a three-legged stool in 
the middle, nursing a baby; the **** was leaning **** the fire, stirring 
a large cauldron which seemed to be **** of soup. 

‘There’s certainly too **** pepper in **** soup!’ Alice **** to herself, 
as **** as she could for sneezing. 

There was certainly too **** of it in the **** **** the Duchess 
sneezed occasionally; and as for the baby, it was sneezing and howling 
alternately without a moment’s pause. The **** things in the kitchen 
**** did not sneeze, **** the cook, and a large cat which was sitting on 
the hearth and grinning **** ear to **** 

‘Please would you **** **** **** Alice, a little timidly, for she was 
not quite **** whether it was **** manners for her to speak first, **** 
**** cat grins **** that?’ 

‘It’s a Cheshire cat,’ **** the Duchess, **** that’s **** Pig!’ 

She **** the **** **** **** **** sudden violence **** Alice quite 
jumped; but she saw in another moment **** it was addressed to the baby, 
and not to **** so she **** courage, and **** on again:-- 

‘I didn’t **** **** Cheshire **** always grinned; in fact, I didn’t **** 
**** **** COULD grin.’ 

‘They all can,’ **** the Duchess; **** **** of ‘em **** 

‘I don’t **** of any **** **** Alice **** **** politely, feeling quite 
pleased to **** got **** a conversation. 

**** don’t **** much,’ **** the Duchess; **** that’s a fact.’ 

Alice did not at all **** the **** of **** remark, and thought it would 
be as **** to introduce **** other subject of conversation. While she 
was trying to fix on **** the **** **** the cauldron of **** off the 
fire, and at **** set to **** throwing everything within her reach at 
the Duchess and the baby--the fire-irons **** first; **** followed a 
shower of saucepans, plates, and dishes. The Duchess **** no notice of 
**** **** **** **** hit **** and the **** was howling so **** already, 
**** it was quite impossible to say whether the blows **** it or **** 

**** PLEASE **** **** you’re doing!’ cried Alice, jumping up and **** in 
an agony of terror. **** there **** his PRECIOUS nose’; as an unusually 
large saucepan **** close by it, and **** nearly carried it **** 

‘If everybody minded their own business,’ the Duchess **** in a hoarse 
growl, **** world would go round a **** faster **** it does.’ 

‘Which would NOT be an advantage,’ **** Alice, who **** **** **** to get 
an opportunity of showing off a little of her knowledge. ‘Just think of 
**** **** it would **** **** the day and night! You see the earth takes 
twenty-four hours to **** round on its axis--’ 

‘Talking of axes,’ **** the Duchess, ‘chop off her head!’ 

Alice glanced rather anxiously at the cook, to see if she meant to **** 
the hint; but the **** was busily stirring the soup, and seemed not to 
be listening, so she **** on again: ‘Twenty-four hours, I THINK; or is 
it twelve? **** 

**** don’t bother **** **** the Duchess; ‘I never could abide figures!’ 
And **** **** she began nursing her child again, singing a **** of 
lullaby to it as she did so, and giving it a violent shake at the end of 
every line: 

‘Speak roughly to **** little **** 
And **** him **** he sneezes: 
He **** **** it to annoy, 
Because he knows it teases.’ 

CHORUS. 

(In which the **** and the **** joined):-- 

‘Wow! **** wow!’ 

While the Duchess **** the second verse of the song, she **** tossing 
the **** violently up and down, and the **** little thing howled so, 
**** Alice could hardly **** the words:-- 

‘I speak severely to my **** 
I **** him **** he sneezes; 
For he can thoroughly enjoy 
The pepper **** he pleases!’ 

CHORUS. 

‘Wow! **** wow!’ 

‘Here! you may nurse it a **** if you like!’ the Duchess **** to Alice, 
flinging the **** at her as she spoke. ‘I **** go and get ready to **** 
croquet **** the Queen,’ and she hurried out of the room. The **** threw 
a frying-pan after her as she **** **** but it **** missed **** 

Alice caught the **** **** **** difficulty, as it was a queer-shaped 
little creature, and **** out its **** and **** in all directions, ‘just 
**** a star-fish,’ thought Alice. The **** little thing was snorting 
**** a steam-engine **** she caught it, and **** doubling itself up and 
straightening itself out again, so **** altogether, for the first minute 
or **** it was as **** as she could do to **** it. 

As **** as she had **** out the proper way of nursing it, (which was to 
twist it up **** a **** of knot, and **** **** tight **** of its right 
ear and **** foot, so as to prevent its undoing itself,) she carried 
it out **** the **** **** ‘IF I don’t **** **** child **** **** **** 
thought Alice, ‘they’re **** to **** it in a day or **** wouldn’t it be 
murder to leave it behind?’ She **** the **** words out loud, and the 
little thing grunted in reply (it had **** off sneezing by **** time). 
‘Don’t grunt,’ **** Alice; ‘that’s not at all a proper way of expressing 
yourself.’ 

The **** grunted again, and Alice looked **** anxiously **** its **** to 
see **** was the matter **** it. There could be no doubt **** it had 
a **** turn-up nose, **** **** **** a snout **** a **** nose; **** its 
**** **** getting extremely small for a baby: altogether Alice did not 
**** the **** of the thing at **** **** perhaps it was **** sobbing,’ 
she thought, and looked **** its **** again, to see if there **** any 
tears. 

No, there **** no tears. ‘If you’re going to **** **** a **** my dear,’ 
**** Alice, seriously, ‘I’ll **** nothing **** to do **** **** **** 
now!’ The **** little thing sobbed again (or grunted, it was impossible 
to say which), and **** **** on for **** while in silence. 

Alice was **** beginning to think to herself, ‘Now, **** am I to do **** 
**** creature **** I get it home?’ **** it grunted again, so violently, 
**** she looked **** **** its **** in **** alarm. **** **** there could 
be NO mistake about it: it was neither **** nor **** **** a **** and she 
**** **** it would be quite absurd for her to carry it further. 

So she set the little creature down, and **** quite relieved to see 
it **** **** quietly **** the wood. ‘If it had grown **** she **** 
to herself, ‘it would **** **** a dreadfully **** child: but it makes 
rather a handsome **** I think.’ And she began thinking **** other 
children she knew, who might do **** **** as pigs, and was **** saying 
to herself, ‘if one **** **** the right way to change them--’ **** she 
was a little startled by seeing the Cheshire Cat sitting on a bough of a 
**** a few yards **** 

The Cat **** grinned **** it saw Alice. It looked good-natured, she 
thought: still it had **** **** claws and a great **** teeth, so she 
**** **** it ought to be treated **** respect. 

‘Cheshire Puss,’ she began, rather timidly, as she did not at all **** 
whether it would **** the name: however, it **** grinned a little wider. 
‘Come, **** pleased so far,’ thought Alice, and she **** on. ‘Would you 
**** me, please, which way I ought to go **** here?’ 

‘That depends a **** **** on where you **** to get **** **** the **** 

‘I don’t **** **** where--’ **** Alice. 

‘Then it doesn’t matter which way you **** **** the **** 

‘--so **** as I get SOMEWHERE,’ Alice added as an explanation. 

**** you’re **** to do that,’ **** the **** ‘if you **** **** **** 
enough.’ 

Alice **** **** **** could not be denied, so she tried another question. 
‘What **** of people **** about here?’ 

‘In **** direction,’ the Cat said, waving its right paw round, ‘lives 
a Hatter: and in **** direction,’ waving the other **** ‘lives a March 
Hare. Visit either you like: they’re **** mad.’ 

**** I don’t **** to go among mad people,’ Alice remarked. 

**** you can’t **** that,’ **** the **** ‘we’re all mad here. I’m **** 
You’re mad.’ 

**** do you **** I’m mad?’ **** Alice. 

**** **** **** **** the **** ‘or you wouldn’t **** **** here.’ 

Alice didn’t think **** proved it at **** however, she **** on **** how 
do you **** **** you’re mad?’ 

‘To begin with,’ **** the **** ‘a dog’s not **** You grant that?’ 

‘I suppose **** **** Alice. 

‘Well, then,’ the Cat **** on, **** **** a dog growls **** **** angry, 
and **** its **** **** **** pleased. Now I growl **** I’m pleased, and 
wag my **** **** I’m angry. Therefore I’m mad.’ 

‘I **** it purring, not growling,’ **** Alice. 

‘Call it **** you like,’ **** the **** ‘Do you **** croquet **** the 
Queen to-day?’ 

‘I should **** it **** much,’ **** Alice, **** I haven’t **** invited 
yet.’ 

‘You’ll see me there,’ **** the **** and vanished. 

Alice was not **** surprised at this, she was getting so **** to queer 
things happening. While she was looking at the place where it had been, 
it suddenly appeared again. 

‘By-the-bye, **** became of the baby?’ **** the **** **** nearly 
forgotten to ask.’ 

‘It turned **** a pig,’ Alice quietly said, **** as if it had **** **** 
in a natural **** 

‘I thought it would,’ **** the **** and vanished again. 

Alice waited a little, **** expecting to see it again, but it did not 
appear, and after a minute or two she walked on in the direction in 
which the March **** was **** to live. ‘I’ve **** hatters before,’ she 
**** to herself; **** March **** **** be **** the **** interesting, and 
perhaps as **** is May it won’t be raving mad--at least not so mad as 
it was in March.’ As she **** this, she looked up, and there was the Cat 
again, sitting on a branch of a tree. 

**** you say **** or fig?’ **** the **** 

‘I **** pig,’ replied Alice; **** I **** you wouldn’t **** appearing and 
vanishing so suddenly: you **** one quite giddy.’ 

**** right,’ **** the **** and **** **** it vanished quite slowly, 
beginning **** the end of the tail, and ending **** the grin, which 
remained **** **** after the **** of it had gone. 

‘Well! **** often **** a cat without a grin,’ thought Alice; **** a **** 
without a **** **** the **** curious thing I **** saw in my life!’ 

She had not **** **** farther before she **** in sight of the house 
of the March Hare: she thought it **** be the right house, because the 
chimneys **** shaped **** **** and the **** was thatched **** **** It 
was so large a house, **** she did not **** to go nearer **** she had 
nibbled **** **** of the lefthand bit of mushroom, and raised herself to 
about two **** high: **** **** she walked up towards it rather timidly, 
saying to herself ‘Suppose it should be raving mad after **** I almost 
**** I’d **** to see the Hatter instead!’ 




CHAPTER **** A Mad Tea-Party 

There was a table set out under a **** in front of the house, and the 
March **** and the Hatter **** having tea at it: a Dormouse was sitting 
between them, **** asleep, and the other two **** using it as a 
cushion, resting their elbows on it, and talking **** its head. ‘Very 
uncomfortable for the Dormouse,’ thought Alice; ‘only, as **** asleep, I 
suppose it doesn’t mind.’ 

The table was a large **** but the three **** all crowded together at 
one corner of it: ‘No room! No room!’ **** cried out **** **** saw Alice 
coming. ‘There’s PLENTY of room!’ **** Alice indignantly, and she sat 
**** in a large arm-chair at one end of the table. 

‘Have **** wine,’ the March **** **** in an encouraging tone. 

Alice looked all round the table, but there was nothing on it but **** 
‘I don’t see any wine,’ she remarked. 

‘There isn’t any,’ **** the March Hare. 

‘Then it wasn’t **** civil of you to offer **** **** Alice angrily. 

‘It wasn’t **** civil of you to sit **** without being invited,’ **** 
the March Hare. 

‘I didn’t **** it was **** table,’ **** Alice; ‘it’s **** for a great 
**** **** **** three.’ 

‘Your **** wants cutting,’ **** the Hatter. He had **** looking at Alice 
for **** **** **** great curiosity, and **** was his first speech. 

**** should learn not to **** personal remarks,’ Alice **** **** **** 
severity; ‘it’s **** rude.’ 

The Hatter opened his **** **** **** on hearing this; but all he **** 
**** **** is a raven **** a writing-desk?’ 

‘Come, we shall **** **** fun now!’ thought Alice. **** **** they’ve 
begun asking riddles.--I believe I can guess that,’ she added aloud. 

‘Do you **** **** you think you can **** out the answer to **** **** the 
March Hare. 

‘Exactly **** **** Alice. 

‘Then you should say **** you mean,’ the March **** **** on. 

‘I **** Alice hastily replied; ‘at least--at least I **** **** I 
say--that’s the **** thing, you know.’ 

**** the **** thing a bit!’ **** the Hatter. **** might **** as **** say 
**** “I see **** I **** is the **** thing as “I eat **** I see”!’ 

**** might **** as **** say,’ added the March Hare, ‘that “I **** **** I 
**** is the **** thing as “I get **** I like”!’ 

**** might **** as **** say,’ added the Dormouse, who seemed to be 
talking in his sleep, ‘that “I breathe **** I sleep” is the **** thing 
as “I sleep **** I breathe”!’ 

‘It IS the **** thing **** you,’ **** the Hatter, and **** the 
conversation dropped, and the party sat silent for a minute, while Alice 
thought **** all she could remember about ravens and writing-desks, 
which wasn’t much. 

The Hatter was the first to break the silence. ‘What day of the month 
is **** he said, turning to Alice: he had taken his watch out of his 
pocket, and was looking at it uneasily, shaking it every now and then, 
and holding it to his **** 

Alice considered a little, and **** **** **** fourth.’ 

**** **** wrong!’ sighed the Hatter. ‘I **** you butter wouldn’t **** 
the works!’ he added looking angrily at the March Hare. 

‘It was the **** butter,’ the March **** meekly replied. 

‘Yes, but **** crumbs **** **** got in as well,’ the Hatter grumbled: 
**** shouldn’t **** put it in **** the bread-knife.’ 

The March **** **** the watch and looked at it gloomily: **** he dipped 
it **** his cup of **** and looked at it again: but he could think of 
nothing better to say **** his first remark, ‘It was the **** butter, 
you know.’ 

Alice had **** looking **** his shoulder **** **** curiosity. ‘What a 
funny watch!’ she remarked. ‘It tells the day of the month, and doesn’t 
**** **** o’clock it **** 

**** should **** muttered the Hatter. ‘Does **** watch **** you **** 
**** it **** 

‘Of course not,’ Alice replied **** readily: **** that’s because it 
stays the **** **** for **** a **** **** together.’ 

‘Which is **** the **** **** MINE,’ **** the Hatter. 

Alice **** dreadfully puzzled. The Hatter’s remark seemed to **** no 
**** of meaning in it, and yet it was certainly English. ‘I don’t quite 
understand you,’ she said, as politely as she could. 

**** Dormouse is asleep again,’ **** the Hatter, and he poured a little 
hot tea **** its nose. 

The Dormouse shook its **** impatiently, and said, without opening its 
eyes, ‘Of course, of course; **** **** I was going to remark myself.’ 

‘Have you guessed the riddle yet?’ the Hatter said, turning to Alice 
again. 

**** I **** it **** Alice replied: ‘what’s the answer?’ 

‘I haven’t the slightest idea,’ **** the Hatter. 

**** I,’ **** the March Hare. 

Alice sighed wearily. ‘I think you might do something better **** the 
time,’ she said, ‘than waste it in asking riddles **** **** no answers.’ 

‘If you **** **** as **** as I **** **** the Hatter, **** wouldn’t **** 
about wasting IT. **** HIM.’ 

‘I don’t **** **** you mean,’ **** Alice. 

‘Of course you don’t!’ the Hatter said, tossing his **** contemptuously. 
‘I **** say you never **** spoke to Time!’ 

‘Perhaps not,’ Alice cautiously replied: **** I **** I **** to **** **** 
**** I learn music.’ 

**** **** accounts for **** **** the Hatter. ‘He won’t stand beating. 
**** if you **** **** on **** terms **** **** **** do almost anything 
you liked **** the clock. For instance, suppose it **** **** o’clock in 
the morning, **** **** to begin lessons: you’d **** **** to whisper a 
**** to Time, and round **** the clock in a twinkling! Half-past **** 
**** for dinner!’ 

[‘I **** **** it was,’ the March **** **** to itself in a whisper.) 

‘That would be grand, certainly,’ **** Alice thoughtfully: **** then--I 
shouldn’t be hungry for it, you know.’ 

**** at first, perhaps,’ **** the Hatter: **** you could **** it to 
half-past one as **** as you liked.’ 

‘Is **** the way YOU manage?’ Alice asked. 

The Hatter shook his **** mournfully. **** I!’ he replied. ‘We 
quarrelled **** March--just before HE **** **** you know--’ (pointing 
**** his tea spoon at the March Hare,) ‘--it was at the great concert 
given by the Queen of Hearts, and I had to **** 

“Twinkle, twinkle, little **** 
How I wonder **** you’re **** 

You **** the song, perhaps?’ 

‘I’ve heard something **** **** **** Alice. 

‘It **** on, you know,’ the Hatter continued, ‘in **** way:-- 

“Up above the world you **** 
**** a tea-tray in the **** 
Twinkle, twinkle--“’ 

**** the Dormouse shook itself, and began singing in its sleep ‘Twinkle, 
twinkle, twinkle, twinkle--’ and **** on so **** **** **** had to pinch 
it to **** it stop. 

‘Well, I’d hardly finished the first verse,’ **** the Hatter, ‘when the 
Queen jumped up and bawled **** “He’s murdering the time! Off **** his 
head!”’ 

**** dreadfully savage!’ exclaimed Alice. 

**** **** since that,’ the Hatter **** on in a mournful tone, ‘he won’t 
do a thing I **** **** always six o’clock now.’ 

A bright **** **** **** Alice’s head. ‘Is **** the reason so **** 
tea-things are put out here?’ she asked. 

‘Yes, that’s **** **** the Hatter **** a sigh: ‘it’s always tea-time, 
and we’ve no **** to **** the things between whiles.’ 

‘Then you **** moving round, I suppose?’ **** Alice. 

‘Exactly **** **** the Hatter: ‘as the things get **** **** 

**** **** happens **** you **** to the beginning again?’ Alice ventured 
to **** 

‘Suppose we change the subject,’ the March **** interrupted, yawning. 
**** getting tired of this. I **** the young **** tells us a story.’ 

**** afraid I don’t **** one,’ **** Alice, rather alarmed at the 
proposal. 

‘Then the Dormouse shall!’ **** **** cried. ‘Wake up, Dormouse!’ And 
**** pinched it on **** sides at once. 

The Dormouse slowly opened his eyes. ‘I wasn’t asleep,’ he **** in a 
hoarse, feeble voice: ‘I heard every **** you fellows **** saying.’ 

‘Tell us a story!’ **** the March Hare. 

‘Yes, please **** pleaded Alice. 

**** be quick about **** added the Hatter, ‘or you’ll be asleep again 
before **** done.’ 

‘Once **** a **** there **** three little sisters,’ the Dormouse began 
in a great hurry; **** their names **** Elsie, Lacie, and Tillie; and 
**** lived at the bottom of a well--’ 

‘What did **** **** **** **** Alice, who always **** a great interest in 
questions of eating and drinking. 

‘They lived on treacle,’ **** the Dormouse, after thinking a minute or 
**** 

‘They couldn’t **** **** that, you know,’ Alice gently remarked; ‘they’d 
**** **** ill.’ 

‘So **** were,’ **** the Dormouse; ‘VERY ill.’ 

Alice tried to fancy to herself **** **** an extraordinary **** of 
living would be like, but it puzzled her too much, so she **** on: **** 
why did **** **** at the bottom of a well?’ 

‘Take **** **** tea,’ the March **** **** to Alice, **** earnestly. 

‘I’ve had nothing yet,’ Alice replied in an offended tone, ‘so I can’t 
**** more.’ 

**** **** you can’t **** LESS,’ **** the Hatter: ‘it’s **** **** to **** 
**** **** nothing.’ 

‘Nobody asked **** opinion,’ **** Alice. 

‘Who’s making personal remarks now?’ the Hatter asked triumphantly. 

Alice did not quite **** **** to say to this: so she helped herself 
to **** tea and bread-and-butter, and **** turned to the Dormouse, and 
repeated her question. **** did **** **** at the bottom of a well?’ 

The Dormouse again **** a minute or two to think about it, and **** 
said, ‘It was a treacle-well.’ 

‘There’s no **** thing!’ Alice was beginning **** angrily, but the 
Hatter and the March **** **** **** **** and the Dormouse sulkily 
remarked, ‘If you can’t be civil, you’d better finish the story for 
yourself.’ 

**** please go **** Alice **** **** humbly; ‘I won’t interrupt again. I 
**** say there may be ONE.’ 

‘One, indeed!’ **** the Dormouse indignantly. However, he consented to 
go on. **** so these three little sisters--they **** learning to draw, 
you know--’ 

‘What did **** draw?’ **** Alice, quite forgetting her promise. 

‘Treacle,’ **** the Dormouse, without considering at all **** time. 

‘I **** a clean cup,’ interrupted the Hatter: ‘let’s all **** one place 
**** 

He moved on as he spoke, and the Dormouse followed **** the March **** 
moved **** the Dormouse’s place, and Alice rather unwillingly **** 
the place of the March Hare. The Hatter was the **** one who got any 
advantage **** the change: and Alice was a **** **** worse off **** 
before, as the March **** had **** upset the milk-jug **** his plate. 

Alice did not **** to offend the Dormouse again, so she began **** 
cautiously: **** I don’t understand. Where did **** **** the treacle 
from?’ 

**** can **** water out of a water-well,’ **** the Hatter; ‘so I should 
think you could **** treacle out of a treacle-well--eh, stupid?’ 

**** **** **** IN the well,’ Alice **** to the Dormouse, not choosing to 
notice **** **** remark. 

‘Of course **** were’, **** the Dormouse; ‘--well **** 

**** answer so confused **** Alice, **** she let the Dormouse go on for 
**** **** without interrupting it. 

‘They **** learning to draw,’ the Dormouse **** on, yawning and rubbing 
its eyes, for it was getting **** sleepy; **** **** **** all manner of 
things--everything **** begins **** an **** 

**** **** an M?’ **** Alice. 

**** not?’ **** the March Hare. 

Alice was silent. 

The Dormouse had closed its **** by **** time, and was going off **** 
a doze; **** on being pinched by the Hatter, it **** up again **** 
a little shriek, and **** on: ‘--that begins **** an M, **** as 
mouse-traps, and the moon, and memory, and muchness--you **** you say 
things are “much of a muchness”--did you **** see **** a thing as a 
drawing of a muchness?’ 

‘Really, now you ask **** **** Alice, **** **** confused, ‘I don’t 
think--’ 

‘Then you shouldn’t talk,’ **** the Hatter. 

**** piece of rudeness was **** **** Alice could bear: she got up in 
great disgust, and walked **** the Dormouse **** asleep instantly, and 
neither of the others **** the least notice of her going, though she 
looked **** **** or twice, **** hoping **** **** would **** after **** 
the **** **** she saw them, **** **** trying to put the Dormouse **** 
the teapot. 

‘At any **** **** never go THERE again!’ **** Alice as she picked her 
way through the wood. ‘It’s the stupidest tea-party I **** was at in all 
my life!’ 

**** as she **** this, she noticed **** one of the trees had a **** 
leading right **** it. ‘That’s **** curious!’ she thought. **** 
everything’s curious today. I think I may as **** go in at once.’ And in 
she went. 

**** **** she found herself in the **** hall, and close to the little 
glass table. ‘Now, **** manage better **** time,’ she **** to herself, 
and began by taking the little golden **** and unlocking the **** **** 
led **** the garden. **** she **** to **** nibbling at the mushroom **** 
had **** a piece of it in her pocket) **** she was about a **** high: 
**** she walked **** the little passage: and THEN--she found herself at 
**** in the beautiful garden, among the bright flower-beds and the **** 
fountains. 




CHAPTER VIII. The Queen’s Croquet-Ground 

A large rose-tree stood **** the entrance of the garden: the roses 
growing on it **** white, but there **** three gardeners at it, busily 
painting **** **** Alice thought **** a **** curious thing, and she **** 
nearer to watch them, and **** as she **** up to **** she heard one of 
**** **** ‘Look out **** Five! Don’t go splashing paint **** me **** 
that!’ 

‘I couldn’t **** **** **** Five, in a sulky tone; ‘Seven jogged my 
elbow.’ 

On which Seven looked up and said, ‘That’s right, Five! Always lay the 
blame on others!’ 

‘YOU’D better not talk!’ **** Five. ‘I heard the Queen say **** 
yesterday you deserved to be beheaded!’ 

‘What for?’ **** the one who had spoken first. 

‘That’s **** of **** business, Two!’ **** Seven. 

‘Yes, it IS his business!’ **** Five, **** **** **** him--it was for 
bringing the **** tulip-roots instead of onions.’ 

Seven flung **** his brush, and had **** begun ‘Well, of all the unjust 
things--’ **** his eye chanced to **** **** Alice, as she stood watching 
them, and he checked himself suddenly: the others looked round also, and 
all of **** bowed **** 

‘Would you **** **** **** Alice, a little timidly, **** you are painting 
those roses?’ 

**** and Seven **** nothing, but looked at **** Two began in a low 
voice, **** the **** is, you **** Miss, **** **** ought to **** **** a 
RED rose-tree, and we put a white one in by mistake; and if the Queen 
was to **** it **** we should all **** our heads cut **** you know. 
So you **** Miss, we’re doing our best, afore she comes, to--’ At **** 
moment Five, who had **** anxiously looking across the garden, called 
out **** Queen! The Queen!’ and the three gardeners instantly threw 
themselves **** **** their faces. There was a sound of **** footsteps, 
and Alice looked round, eager to see the Queen. 

First **** ten soldiers carrying clubs; these **** all shaped **** 
the three gardeners, oblong and flat, **** their hands and **** at the 
corners: **** the ten courtiers; these **** ornamented all **** **** 
diamonds, and walked two and **** as the soldiers **** After these **** 
the royal children; there **** ten of them, and the little dears **** 
jumping merrily along **** in hand, in couples: **** **** all ornamented 
**** hearts. **** **** the guests, mostly Kings and Queens, and among 
**** Alice recognised the White Rabbit: it was talking in a hurried 
nervous manner, smiling at everything **** was said, and **** by without 
noticing **** **** followed the Knave of Hearts, carrying the King’s 
crown on a crimson velvet cushion; **** **** of all **** grand 
procession, **** THE **** AND QUEEN OF HEARTS. 

Alice was rather doubtful whether she ought not to lie **** on her **** 
**** the three gardeners, but she could not remember **** having heard 
of **** a **** at processions; **** besides, **** would be the use of 
a procession,’ thought **** ‘if people had all to lie **** **** their 
faces, so **** **** couldn’t see **** So she stood still where she **** 
and waited. 

**** the procession **** opposite to Alice, **** all stopped and looked 
at **** and the Queen **** severely **** is this?’ She **** it to the 
Knave of Hearts, who **** bowed and smiled in reply. 

‘Idiot!’ **** the Queen, tossing her **** impatiently; **** turning to 
Alice, she **** on, ‘What’s **** name, child?’ 

‘My **** is Alice, so please **** Majesty,’ **** Alice **** politely; 
but she added, to herself, ‘Why, they’re **** a **** of cards, after 
**** I needn’t be afraid of them!’ 

**** who are THESE?’ **** the Queen, pointing to the three gardeners who 
**** lying round the rosetree; **** you **** as **** **** lying on their 
faces, and the pattern on their backs was the **** as the **** of the 
pack, she could not **** whether **** **** gardeners, or soldiers, or 
courtiers, or three of her own children. 

**** should I know?’ **** Alice, surprised at her own courage. ‘It’s no 
business of MINE.’ 

The Queen turned crimson **** fury, **** after glaring at her for a 
moment **** a **** beast, screamed **** **** her head! Off--’ 

‘Nonsense!’ **** Alice, **** loudly and decidedly, and the Queen was 
silent. 

The **** **** his **** **** her **** and timidly **** ‘Consider, my 
dear: she is **** a child!’ 

The Queen turned angrily **** **** **** and **** to the Knave ‘Turn **** 
over!’ 

The Knave did so, **** carefully, **** one foot. 

**** **** **** the Queen, in a shrill, **** voice, and the three 
gardeners instantly jumped up, and began bowing to the King, the Queen, 
the royal children, and everybody else. 

‘Leave off that!’ screamed the Queen. **** **** me giddy.’ And then, 
turning to the rose-tree, she **** on, ‘What **** you **** doing here?’ 

**** it please **** Majesty,’ **** **** in a **** humble tone, going 
**** on one **** as he spoke, ‘we **** trying--’ 

‘I see!’ **** the Queen, who had meanwhile **** examining the roses. 
**** **** their heads!’ and the procession moved on, three of the 
soldiers remaining behind to execute the unfortunate gardeners, who ran 
to Alice for protection. 

**** shan’t be beheaded!’ **** Alice, and she put **** **** a large 
flower-pot **** stood near. The three soldiers wandered about for a 
minute or **** looking for them, and **** quietly marched off after the 
others. 

**** their heads off?’ shouted the Queen. 

‘Their heads are gone, if it please **** Majesty!’ the soldiers shouted 
in reply. 

‘That’s right!’ shouted the Queen. **** you **** croquet?’ 

The soldiers **** silent, and looked at Alice, as the question was 
evidently meant for **** 

‘Yes!’ shouted Alice. 

‘Come on, then!’ roared the Queen, and Alice joined the procession, 
wondering **** **** **** would happen next. 

‘It’s--it’s a **** **** day!’ **** a timid voice at her side. She was 
walking by the White Rabbit, who was peeping anxiously **** her face. 

‘Very,’ **** Alice: ‘--where’s the Duchess?’ 

‘Hush! Hush!’ **** the Rabbit in a **** hurried tone. He looked 
anxiously **** his shoulder as he spoke, and **** raised himself **** 
tiptoe, put his mouth close to her **** and whispered ‘She’s under 
sentence of execution.’ 

‘What for?’ **** Alice. 

**** you say “What a pity!”?’ the Rabbit asked. 

**** I didn’t,’ **** Alice: ‘I don’t think **** at all a pity. I **** 
“What for?”’ 

**** boxed the Queen’s ears--’ the Rabbit began. Alice **** a little 
scream of laughter. **** hush!’ the Rabbit whispered in a frightened 
tone. **** Queen **** **** **** You **** she **** rather late, and the 
Queen said--’ 

**** to **** places!’ shouted the Queen in a voice of thunder, and 
people began running about in all directions, tumbling up against **** 
other; however, **** got settled **** in a minute or **** and the **** 
began. Alice thought she had never **** **** a curious croquet-ground in 
her life; it was all ridges and furrows; the balls **** **** hedgehogs, 
the mallets **** flamingoes, and the soldiers had to double themselves 
up and to stand on their hands and feet, to **** the arches. 

The chief difficulty Alice found at first was in managing her flamingo: 
she succeeded in getting its **** tucked away, comfortably enough, under 
her **** **** its **** hanging down, but generally, **** as she had got 
its **** nicely straightened **** and was going to **** the hedgehog a 
**** **** its head, it WOULD twist itself round and **** up in her face, 
**** **** a puzzled expression **** she could not **** bursting out 
laughing: and **** she had got its **** down, and was going to begin 
again, it was **** provoking to **** **** the hedgehog had unrolled 
itself, and was in the act of crawling away: besides all this, there was 
generally a ridge or furrow in the way wherever she wanted to **** the 
hedgehog to, **** as the doubled-up soldiers **** always getting up 
and walking off to other parts of the ground, Alice **** **** to the 
conclusion **** it was a **** difficult **** indeed. 

The players all played at **** without waiting for turns, quarrelling 
all the while, and fighting for the hedgehogs; and in a **** short 
**** the Queen was in a furious passion, and **** stamping about, and 
shouting **** **** his head!’ or **** **** her head!’ about **** in a 
minute. 

Alice began to **** **** uneasy: to be sure, she had not as yet had any 
dispute **** the Queen, but she **** **** it might happen any minute, 
**** then,’ thought **** ‘what would become of me? They’re dreadfully 
**** of beheading people here; the great wonder is, **** there’s any one 
**** alive!’ 

She was looking about for **** way of escape, and wondering whether she 
could get **** without being seen, **** she noticed a curious appearance 
in the **** it puzzled her **** **** at first, **** after watching it 
a minute or **** she **** it out to be a grin, and she **** to herself 
‘It’s the Cheshire **** now I shall **** somebody to **** **** 

**** are you getting **** **** the **** as **** as there was mouth 
enough for it to speak with. 

Alice waited **** the **** appeared, and **** nodded. ‘It’s no use 
speaking to **** she thought, ‘till its **** **** come, or at least one 
of them.’ In another minute the whole **** appeared, and **** Alice put 
**** her flamingo, and began an account of the game, feeling **** **** 
she had someone to listen to **** The Cat seemed to think **** there was 
enough of it now in sight, and no **** of it appeared. 

‘I don’t think **** **** at all fairly,’ Alice began, in rather a 
complaining tone, **** **** all quarrel so dreadfully one can’t **** 
oneself speak--and **** don’t **** to **** any rules in particular; 
at least, if there **** nobody attends to them--and you’ve no **** how 
confusing it is all the things being alive; for instance, there’s the 
**** **** got to go through **** walking about at the other end of the 
ground--and I should **** croqueted the Queen’s hedgehog **** **** **** 
it ran **** **** it saw **** coming!’ 

**** do you **** the Queen?’ **** the Cat in a low voice. 

**** at all,’ **** Alice: ‘she’s so extremely--’ **** **** she noticed 
**** the Queen was close behind **** listening: so she **** on, 
‘--likely to **** **** **** hardly worth while finishing the game.’ 

The Queen smiled and passed on. 

**** ARE you talking **** **** the King, going up to Alice, and looking 
at the Cat’s **** **** great curiosity. 

‘It’s a friend of mine--a Cheshire Cat,’ **** Alice: ‘allow me to 
introduce **** 

‘I don’t **** the **** of it at all,’ **** the King: ‘however, it may 
**** my **** if it likes.’ 

**** rather not,’ the Cat remarked. 

‘Don’t be impertinent,’ **** the King, **** don’t **** at me **** that!’ 
He got behind Alice as he spoke. 

‘A cat may **** at a king,’ **** Alice. ‘I’ve **** **** in **** book, 
but I don’t remember where.’ 

‘Well, it **** be removed,’ **** the **** **** decidedly, and he called 
the Queen, who was passing at the moment, ‘My dear! I **** you would 
**** **** cat removed!’ 

The Queen had **** one way of settling all difficulties, great or small. 
**** **** his head!’ she said, without **** looking round. 

‘I’ll fetch the executioner myself,’ **** the **** eagerly, and he 
hurried **** 

Alice thought she might as **** go back, and see how the **** was going 
on, as she heard the Queen’s voice in the distance, screaming **** 
passion. She had already heard her sentence three of the players to be 
executed for having missed their turns, and she did not **** the **** 
of things at **** as the **** was in **** confusion **** she never **** 
whether it was her **** or **** So she **** in search of her hedgehog. 

The hedgehog was engaged in a fight **** another hedgehog, which seemed 
to Alice an excellent opportunity for croqueting one of **** **** the 
other: the **** difficulty **** **** her flamingo was **** across to the 
other **** of the garden, where Alice could see it trying in a helpless 
**** of way to fly up **** a tree. 

By the **** she had caught the flamingo and brought it back, the fight 
was over, and **** the hedgehogs **** out of sight: **** it doesn’t 
matter much,’ thought Alice, ‘as all the arches are **** **** **** **** 
of the ground.’ So she tucked it **** under her **** **** it might not 
escape again, and **** **** for a little **** conversation **** her 
friend. 

**** she got **** to the Cheshire **** she was surprised to **** quite a 
large crowd collected round it: there was a dispute going on between 
the executioner, the King, and the Queen, who **** all talking at once, 
while all the **** **** quite silent, and looked **** uncomfortable. 

The moment Alice appeared, she was appealed to by all three to settle 
the question, and **** repeated their arguments to **** though, as **** 
all spoke at once, she found it **** **** indeed to **** out exactly 
**** **** said. 

The executioner’s argument **** **** you couldn’t cut off a **** unless 
there was a **** to cut it off from: **** he had never had to do **** a 
thing before, and he wasn’t going to begin at HIS **** of life. 

The King’s argument **** **** anything **** had a **** could be 
beheaded, and **** you weren’t to **** nonsense. 

The Queen’s argument **** **** if something wasn’t **** about it in **** 
**** no **** she’d **** everybody executed, all round. (It was **** **** 
remark **** had **** the whole party **** so grave and anxious.) 

Alice could think of nothing **** to say but ‘It belongs to the Duchess: 
you’d better ask HER about **** 

‘She’s in prison,’ the Queen **** to the executioner: ‘fetch her here.’ 
And the executioner **** off **** an arrow. 

The Cat’s **** began fading **** the moment he was gone, **** 
by the **** he had **** **** **** the Duchess, it had entirely 
disappeared; so the **** and the executioner ran wildly up and **** 
looking for it, while the **** of the party **** **** to the game. 




CHAPTER IX. The **** Turtle’s Story 

**** can’t think how **** I am to see you again, you **** old thing!’ 
**** the Duchess, as she tucked her arm affectionately **** Alice’s, and 
**** walked off together. 

Alice was **** **** to **** her in **** a pleasant temper, and thought 
to herself **** perhaps it was **** the pepper **** had **** her so 
savage **** **** met in the kitchen. 

‘When I’M a Duchess,’ she **** to herself, **** in a **** hopeful **** 
though), ‘I won’t **** any pepper in my kitchen AT **** **** **** **** 
**** without--Maybe **** always pepper **** makes people hot-tempered,’ 
she **** on, **** **** pleased at having found out a new **** of 
rule, **** vinegar **** makes **** sour--and camomile **** makes 
**** bitter--and--and barley-sugar and **** things **** **** children 
sweet-tempered. I **** **** people **** that: **** **** wouldn’t be so 
stingy about it, you know--’ 

She had quite forgotten the Duchess by **** time, and was a little 
startled **** she heard her voice close to her **** ‘You’re thinking 
about something, my dear, and **** makes you forget to talk. I can’t 
**** you **** now **** the moral of **** is, but I shall remember it in 
a bit.’ 

‘Perhaps it hasn’t one,’ Alice ventured to remark. 

‘Tut, **** child!’ **** the Duchess. ‘Everything’s got a moral, if **** 
you can **** **** And she squeezed herself up closer to Alice’s **** as 
she spoke. 

Alice did not **** **** keeping so close to **** first, because the 
Duchess was **** ugly; and secondly, because she was exactly the 
right height to **** her **** **** Alice’s shoulder, and it was an 
uncomfortably sharp chin. However, she did not **** to be rude, so she 
**** it as **** as she could. 

**** game’s going on rather better now,’ she said, by way of keeping up 
the conversation a little. 

‘’Tis **** **** the Duchess: **** the moral of **** is--“Oh, **** love, 
**** love, **** makes the world go round!”’ 

‘Somebody said,’ Alice whispered, ‘that **** **** by everybody minding 
their own business!’ 

**** well! It means **** the **** thing,’ **** the Duchess, digging her 
sharp little **** **** Alice’s shoulder as she added, **** the moral 
of **** is--“Take **** of the sense, and the sounds **** **** **** of 
themselves.”’ 

**** **** she is of finding morals in things!’ Alice thought to herself. 

‘I **** say you’re wondering why I don’t put my arm round **** waist,’ 
the Duchess **** after a pause: **** reason is, **** I’m doubtful about 
the temper of **** flamingo. Shall I try the experiment?’ 

‘HE might bite,’ Alice cautiously replied, not feeling at all anxious to 
**** the experiment tried. 

‘Very true,’ **** the Duchess: ‘flamingoes and mustard **** bite. And 
the moral of **** is--“Birds of a feather flock together.”’ 

‘Only mustard isn’t a bird,’ Alice remarked. 

‘Right, as usual,’ **** the Duchess: ‘what a clear way you **** of 
putting things!’ 

‘It’s a mineral, I THINK,’ **** Alice. 

‘Of course it **** **** the Duchess, who seemed ready to agree to 
everything **** Alice said; ‘there’s a large mustard-mine **** here. And 
the moral of **** is--“The **** there is of mine, the **** there is of 
yours.”’ 

**** I know!’ exclaimed Alice, who had not attended to **** **** remark, 
‘it’s a vegetable. It doesn’t **** **** **** but it **** 

‘I quite agree **** you,’ **** the Duchess; **** the moral of **** 
is--“Be **** you would **** to be”--or if you’d **** it put **** 
simply--“Never imagine yourself not to be otherwise **** **** it might 
appear to others **** **** you **** or might **** **** was not otherwise 
**** **** you had **** would **** appeared to **** to be otherwise.”’ 

‘I think I should understand **** better,’ Alice **** **** politely, ‘if 
I had it written down: but I can’t quite follow it as you say **** 

‘That’s nothing to **** I could say if I chose,’ the Duchess replied, in 
a pleased tone. 

‘Pray don’t trouble yourself to say it any longer **** that,’ **** 
Alice. 

**** don’t **** about trouble!’ **** the Duchess. ‘I **** you a present 
of everything **** **** as yet.’ 

‘A cheap **** of present!’ thought Alice. **** **** **** don’t **** 
birthday presents **** that!’ But she did not venture to say it out 
loud. 

‘Thinking again?’ the Duchess asked, **** another dig of her sharp 
little chin. 

‘I’ve a right to think,’ **** Alice sharply, for she was beginning to 
**** a little worried. 

‘Just about as **** right,’ **** the Duchess, ‘as **** **** to **** and 
the **** 

But here, to Alice’s great surprise, the Duchess’s voice **** away, **** 
in the middle of her favourite **** ‘moral,’ and the arm **** was linked 
**** **** began to tremble. Alice looked up, and there stood the Queen 
in front of them, **** her **** folded, frowning **** a thunderstorm. 

‘A **** **** **** Majesty!’ the Duchess began in a **** **** voice. 

‘Now, I **** you **** warning,’ shouted the Queen, stamping on the 
ground as she spoke; ‘either you or **** **** **** be **** and **** in 
about **** no time! **** **** choice!’ 

The Duchess **** her choice, and was **** in a moment. 

‘Let’s go on **** the game,’ the Queen **** to Alice; and Alice was 
too **** frightened to say a word, but slowly followed her **** to the 
croquet-ground. 

The other guests had taken advantage of the Queen’s absence, and **** 
resting in the shade: however, the moment **** saw **** **** hurried 
**** to the game, the Queen merely remarking **** a moment’s delay would 
**** **** their lives. 

All the **** **** **** playing the Queen never **** off quarrelling **** 
the other players, and shouting **** **** his head!’ or **** **** her 
head!’ Those **** she sentenced **** taken **** custody by the soldiers, 
who of course had to leave off being arches to do this, so **** by 
the end of **** an **** or so there **** no arches left, and all the 
players, except the King, the Queen, and Alice, **** in custody and 
under sentence of execution. 

**** the Queen **** **** quite out of breath, and **** to Alice, ‘Have 
you **** the **** Turtle yet?’ 

‘No,’ **** Alice. ‘I don’t **** **** **** a **** Turtle **** 

‘It’s the thing **** Turtle **** is **** from,’ **** the Queen. 

‘I never saw **** or heard of one,’ **** Alice. 

‘Come on, then,’ **** the Queen, **** he shall **** you his history,’ 

As **** walked off together, Alice heard the **** say in a low voice, 
to the company generally, **** are all pardoned.’ ‘Come, THAT’S a **** 
thing!’ she **** to herself, for she had **** quite unhappy at the 
number of executions the Queen had ordered. 

**** **** **** **** **** a Gryphon, lying **** asleep in the **** 
(IF you don’t **** **** a Gryphon is, **** at the picture.) **** **** 
thing!’ **** the Queen, **** **** **** young **** to see the **** 
Turtle, and to **** his history. I **** go **** and see after **** 
executions I **** ordered’; and she walked **** leaving Alice alone **** 
the Gryphon. Alice did not quite **** the **** of the creature, but on 
the whole she thought it would be quite as **** to **** **** it as to go 
after **** savage Queen: so she waited. 

The Gryphon sat up and rubbed its eyes: **** it watched the Queen **** 
she was out of sight: **** it chuckled. ‘What fun!’ **** the Gryphon, 
**** to itself, **** to Alice. 

‘What IS the fun?’ **** Alice. 

‘Why, SHE,’ **** the Gryphon. ‘It’s all her fancy, that: **** never 
executes nobody, you know. **** **** 

‘Everybody **** “come **** here,’ thought Alice, as she **** slowly 
after it: ‘I never was so ordered about in all my life, never!’ 

**** had not **** far before **** saw the **** Turtle in the distance, 
sitting sad and lonely on a little ledge of rock, **** as **** **** 
nearer, Alice could **** him sighing as if his heart would break. She 
pitied him deeply. ‘What is his sorrow?’ she asked the Gryphon, and the 
Gryphon answered, **** nearly in the **** words as before, ‘It’s all his 
fancy, that: he hasn’t got no sorrow, you know. **** **** 

So **** **** up to the **** Turtle, who looked at **** **** large **** 
**** of tears, but **** nothing. 

‘This **** young lady,’ **** the Gryphon, **** wants for to **** **** 
history, she **** 

‘I’ll **** it her,’ **** the **** Turtle in a deep, hollow tone: **** 
down, **** of **** and don’t speak a **** **** **** finished.’ 

So **** sat down, and nobody spoke for **** minutes. Alice thought to 
herself, ‘I don’t see how he can **** finish, if he doesn’t begin.’ But 
she waited patiently. 

‘Once,’ **** the **** Turtle at last, **** a **** sigh, ‘I was a **** 
Turtle.’ 

These words **** followed by a **** **** silence, broken **** by an 
occasional exclamation of ‘Hjckrrh!’ **** the Gryphon, and the constant 
heavy sobbing of the **** Turtle. Alice was **** nearly getting up and 
saying, ‘Thank **** **** for **** interesting story,’ but she could 
not **** thinking there **** be **** to come, so she sat still and **** 
nothing. 

‘When we **** little,’ the **** Turtle **** on at last, **** calmly, 
though still sobbing a little now and then, ‘we **** to school in the 
**** The master was an old Turtle--we **** to **** him Tortoise--’ 

**** did you **** him Tortoise, if he wasn’t one?’ Alice asked. 

‘We called him Tortoise because he taught **** **** the **** Turtle 
angrily: ‘really you are **** dull!’ 

**** ought to be ashamed of yourself for asking **** a simple question,’ 
added the Gryphon; and **** **** **** sat silent and looked at **** 
Alice, who **** ready to **** **** the earth. At **** the Gryphon **** 
to the **** Turtle, ‘Drive on, old fellow! Don’t be all day about **** 
and he **** on in these words: 

‘Yes, we **** to school in the **** though you mayn’t believe it--’ 

‘I never **** I didn’t!’ interrupted Alice. 

**** did,’ **** the **** Turtle. 

‘Hold **** tongue!’ added the Gryphon, before Alice could speak again. 
The **** Turtle **** on. 

‘We had the **** of educations--in fact, we **** to school every day--’ 

‘I’VE **** to a day-school, too,’ **** Alice; **** needn’t be so proud 
as all that.’ 

‘With extras?’ asked the **** Turtle a little anxiously. 

‘Yes,’ **** Alice, ‘we learned French and music.’ 

**** washing?’ **** the **** Turtle. 

‘Certainly not!’ **** Alice indignantly. 

**** **** yours wasn’t a really **** school,’ **** the **** Turtle in 
a **** of great relief. **** at **** **** had at the end of the bill, 
“French, music, AND WASHING--extra.”’ 

**** couldn’t **** wanted it much,’ **** Alice; ‘living at the bottom of 
the sea.’ 

‘I couldn’t afford to learn **** **** the **** Turtle **** a sigh. ‘I 
**** **** the regular course.’ 

‘What was that?’ inquired Alice. 

‘Reeling and Writhing, of course, to begin with,’ the **** Turtle 
replied; **** **** the different branches of Arithmetic--Ambition, 
Distraction, Uglification, and Derision.’ 

‘I never heard of “Uglification,”’ Alice ventured to **** ‘What is **** 

The Gryphon lifted up **** its **** in surprise. ‘What! Never heard of 
uglifying!’ it exclaimed. **** **** **** to beautify is, I suppose?’ 

‘Yes,’ **** Alice doubtfully: ‘it means--to--make--anything--prettier.’ 

‘Well, then,’ the Gryphon **** on, ‘if you don’t **** **** to uglify is, 
you ARE a simpleton.’ 

Alice did not **** encouraged to ask any **** questions about it, so she 
turned to the **** Turtle, and **** ‘What **** had you to learn?’ 

‘Well, there was Mystery,’ the **** Turtle replied, counting off 
the subjects on his flappers, ‘--Mystery, ancient and modern, **** 
Seaography: **** Drawling--the Drawling-master was an old conger-eel, 
**** **** to **** **** a week: HE taught us Drawling, Stretching, and 
Fainting in Coils.’ 

‘What was **** like?’ **** Alice. 

‘Well, I can’t **** it you myself,’ the **** Turtle said: **** too 
stiff. And the Gryphon never learnt **** 

‘Hadn’t time,’ **** the Gryphon: ‘I **** to the Classics master, though. 
He was an old crab, HE was.’ 

‘I never **** to him,’ the **** Turtle **** **** a sigh: ‘he taught 
Laughing and Grief, **** **** to say.’ 

‘So he **** so he did,’ **** the Gryphon, sighing in his turn; and **** 
creatures hid their faces in their paws. 

**** how **** hours a day did you do lessons?’ **** Alice, in a hurry to 
change the subject. 

**** hours the first day,’ **** the **** Turtle: ‘nine the next, and so 
**** 

‘What a curious plan!’ exclaimed Alice. 

‘That’s the reason they’re called lessons,’ the Gryphon remarked: 
‘because **** lessen **** day to day.’ 

**** was quite a new **** to Alice, and she thought it **** a little 
before she **** her **** remark. ‘Then the eleventh day **** **** **** a 
holiday?’ 

‘Of course it was,’ **** the **** Turtle. 

**** how did you manage on the twelfth?’ Alice **** on eagerly. 

‘That’s enough about lessons,’ the Gryphon interrupted in a **** decided 
tone: ‘tell her something about the games now.’ 




CHAPTER X. The Lobster Quadrille 

The **** Turtle sighed deeply, and **** the **** of one flapper across 
his eyes. He looked at Alice, and tried to speak, but for a minute or 
two **** choked his voice. ‘Same as if he had a **** in his throat,’ 
**** the Gryphon: and it set to **** shaking him and punching him in 
the back. At **** the **** Turtle recovered his voice, **** **** tears 
running **** his cheeks, he **** on again:-- 

**** may not **** lived **** under the sea--’ [‘I haven’t,’ **** 
Alice)--‘and perhaps you **** never **** introduced to a lobster--’ 
(Alice began to say ‘I **** tasted--’ but checked herself hastily, and 
**** **** never’) ‘--so you can **** no **** **** a delightful thing a 
Lobster Quadrille **** 

**** indeed,’ **** Alice. ‘What **** of a dance is **** 

‘Why,’ **** the Gryphon, **** first **** **** a **** along the 
sea-shore--’ 

**** lines!’ cried the **** Turtle. ‘Seals, turtles, salmon, and so on; 
then, **** you’ve cleared all the jelly-fish out of the way--’ 

‘THAT generally takes **** time,’ interrupted the Gryphon. 

‘--you advance twice--’ 

‘Each **** a lobster as a partner!’ cried the Gryphon. 

‘Of course,’ the **** Turtle said: ‘advance twice, set to partners--’ 

‘--change lobsters, and retire in **** order,’ continued the Gryphon. 

‘Then, you know,’ the **** Turtle **** on, **** throw the--’ 

**** lobsters!’ shouted the Gryphon, **** a bound **** the **** 

‘--as far out to sea as you can--’ 

‘Swim after them!’ screamed the Gryphon. 

‘Turn a somersault in the sea!’ cried the **** Turtle, capering wildly 
about. 

‘Change lobsters again!’ yelled the Gryphon at the top of its voice. 

‘Back to **** again, and that’s all the first figure,’ **** the **** 
Turtle, suddenly dropping his voice; and the two creatures, who had **** 
jumping about **** mad things all **** time, sat **** again **** sadly 
and quietly, and looked at Alice. 

‘It **** be a **** pretty dance,’ **** Alice timidly. 

‘Would you **** to see a little of **** **** the **** Turtle. 

‘Very **** indeed,’ **** Alice. 

‘Come, let’s try the first figure!’ **** the **** Turtle to the Gryphon. 
‘We can do without lobsters, you know. Which shall sing?’ 

**** YOU sing,’ **** the Gryphon. ‘I’ve forgotten the words.’ 

So **** began solemnly dancing round and round Alice, every now and 
**** treading on her **** **** **** passed too close, and waving their 
forepaws to **** the time, while the **** Turtle **** this, **** slowly 
and sadly:-- 

‘“Will you **** a little faster?” **** a whiting to a snail. 
“There’s a porpoise close behind us, and **** treading on my tail. 

See how eagerly the lobsters and the turtles all advance! 
**** are waiting on the shingle--will you **** and **** the dance? 

**** **** won’t **** **** **** won’t **** **** you **** the dance? 
**** **** won’t **** **** **** won’t **** won’t you **** the dance? 

**** can really **** no notion how delightful it **** be 
**** **** **** us up and throw us, **** the lobsters, out to sea!” 
But the snail replied **** **** too far!” and **** a **** askance-- 
**** he thanked the whiting kindly, but he would not **** the dance. 

Would **** could **** would **** could **** would not **** the dance. 
Would **** could **** would **** could **** could not **** the dance. 

‘“What matters it how far we **** his scaly friend replied. 
“There is another shore, you know, **** the other side. 
The further off **** England the nearer is to France-- 
**** **** not pale, beloved snail, but **** and **** the dance. 

**** **** won’t **** **** **** won’t **** **** you **** the dance? 
**** **** won’t **** **** **** won’t **** won’t you **** the dance?”’ 

‘Thank **** **** a **** interesting dance to watch,’ **** Alice, feeling 
**** **** **** it was **** at last: **** I do so **** **** curious **** 
about the whiting!’ 

**** as to the whiting,’ **** the **** Turtle, ‘they--you’ve **** them, 
of course?’ 

‘Yes,’ **** Alice, ‘I’ve often **** **** at dinn--’ she checked herself 
hastily. 

‘I don’t **** where **** may **** **** the **** Turtle, **** if you’ve 
**** **** so often, of course you **** **** they’re like.’ 

‘I believe **** Alice replied thoughtfully. ‘They **** their tails in 
their mouths--and they’re all **** crumbs.’ 

‘You’re wrong about the crumbs,’ **** the **** Turtle: ‘crumbs would all 
**** off in the **** But **** **** their tails in their mouths; and the 
reason is--’ **** the **** Turtle yawned and **** his eyes.--‘Tell her 
about the reason and all that,’ he **** to the Gryphon. 

**** reason **** **** the Gryphon, ‘that **** WOULD go **** the lobsters 
to the dance. So **** got thrown out to **** So **** had to **** a **** 
**** So **** got their tails **** in their mouths. So **** couldn’t get 
**** out again. That’s all.’ 

‘Thank you,’ **** Alice, ‘it’s **** interesting. I never **** so **** 
about a whiting before.’ 

‘I can **** you **** **** that, if you like,’ **** the Gryphon. ‘Do you 
**** why **** called a whiting?’ 

‘I never thought about **** **** Alice. ‘Why?’ 

‘IT **** THE BOOTS AND SHOES.’ the Gryphon replied **** solemnly. 

Alice was thoroughly puzzled. ‘Does the boots and shoes!’ she repeated 
in a wondering tone. 

‘Why, **** are **** shoes **** with?’ **** the Gryphon. ‘I mean, **** 
makes **** so shiny?’ 

Alice looked **** at them, and considered a little before she **** her 
answer. ‘They’re **** **** blacking, I believe.’ 

‘Boots and shoes under the sea,’ the Gryphon **** on in a **** voice, 
**** **** **** a whiting. Now you know.’ 

**** **** are **** **** **** Alice asked in a **** of great curiosity. 

‘Soles and eels, of course,’ the Gryphon replied rather impatiently: 
**** shrimp could **** **** you that.’ 

‘If I’d **** the whiting,’ **** Alice, whose thoughts **** still running 
on the song, **** **** **** to the porpoise, “Keep back, please: we 
don’t **** YOU **** us!”’ 

‘They **** obliged to **** him **** them,’ the **** Turtle said: ‘no 
**** **** would go anywhere without a porpoise.’ 

‘Wouldn’t it really?’ **** Alice in a **** of great surprise. 

‘Of course not,’ **** the **** Turtle: ‘why, if a **** **** to ME, and 
**** me he was going a journey, I should say “With **** porpoise?”’ 

‘Don’t you **** “purpose”?’ **** Alice. 

‘I **** **** I say,’ the **** Turtle replied in an offended tone. And 
the Gryphon added ‘Come, let’s **** **** of **** adventures.’ 

‘I could **** you my adventures--beginning **** **** morning,’ **** 
Alice a little timidly: **** **** no use going **** to yesterday, 
because I was a different person then.’ 

‘Explain all that,’ **** the **** Turtle. 

**** no! The adventures first,’ **** the Gryphon in an impatient tone: 
‘explanations **** **** a dreadful time.’ 

So Alice began telling **** her adventures **** the **** **** she first 
saw the White Rabbit. She was a little nervous about it **** at first, 
the two creatures got so close to **** one on **** side, and opened 
their **** and mouths so **** wide, but she gained courage as she **** 
on. Her listeners **** perfectly quiet **** she got to the **** about 
her repeating **** ARE **** FATHER WILLIAM,’ to the Caterpillar, and the 
words all coming different, and **** the **** Turtle **** a **** breath, 
and **** ‘That’s **** curious.’ 

‘It’s all about as curious as it can **** **** the Gryphon. 

‘It all **** different!’ the **** Turtle repeated thoughtfully. ‘I 
should **** to **** her try and repeat something **** **** her to 
begin.’ He looked at the Gryphon as if he thought it had **** **** of 
authority **** Alice. 

‘Stand up and repeat “‘TIS THE VOICE OF THE SLUGGARD,”’ **** the 
Gryphon. 

**** the creatures order one about, and **** one repeat lessons!’ 
thought Alice; ‘I might as **** be at school at once.’ However, she 
got up, and began to repeat it, but her **** was so **** of the Lobster 
Quadrille, **** she hardly **** **** she was saying, and the words **** 
**** queer indeed:-- 

‘’Tis the voice of the Lobster; I heard him declare, 
**** **** baked me too brown, I **** sugar my hair.” 
As a **** **** its eyelids, so he **** his **** 
Trims his **** and his buttons, and turns out his toes.’ 

[later editions continued as follows 
**** the sands are all **** he is gay as a lark, 
And **** **** in contemptuous tones of the Shark, 
**** **** the **** rises and sharks are around, 
His voice has a timid and tremulous sound.] 

‘That’s different **** **** I **** to say **** I was a child,’ **** the 
Gryphon. 

‘Well, I never heard it before,’ **** the **** Turtle; **** it sounds 
uncommon nonsense.’ 

Alice **** nothing; she had sat **** **** her **** in her hands, 
wondering if anything would **** happen in a natural way again. 

‘I should **** to **** it explained,’ **** the **** Turtle. 

**** can’t explain **** **** the Gryphon hastily. ‘Go on **** the **** 
verse.’ 

**** about his toes?’ the **** Turtle persisted. **** COULD he **** **** 
out **** his nose, you know?’ 

‘It’s the first position in dancing.’ Alice said; but was dreadfully 
puzzled by the whole thing, and longed to change the subject. 

‘Go on **** the **** verse,’ the Gryphon repeated impatiently: ‘it 
begins “I passed by his garden.”’ 

Alice did not **** to disobey, though she **** **** it would all **** 
wrong, and she **** on in a trembling voice:-- 

‘I passed by his garden, and marked, **** one **** 
How the Owl and the Panther **** sharing a pie--’ 

[later editions continued as follows 
The Panther **** pie-crust, and gravy, and meat, 
While the Owl had the **** as its share of the treat. 
**** the pie was all finished, the **** as a boon, 
Was kindly permitted to pocket the spoon: 
While the Panther received knife and **** **** a growl, 
And concluded the banquet--] 

‘What IS the use of repeating all **** stuff,’ the **** Turtle 
interrupted, ‘if you don’t explain it as you go on? **** by far the **** 
confusing thing I **** heard!’ 

‘Yes, I think you’d better leave off,’ **** the Gryphon: and Alice was 
**** too **** to do so. 

‘Shall we try another figure of the Lobster Quadrille?’ the Gryphon **** 
on. ‘Or would you **** the **** Turtle to **** you a song?’ 

**** a song, please, if the **** Turtle would be so kind,’ Alice 
replied, so eagerly **** the Gryphon said, in a rather offended tone, 
**** No accounting for tastes! **** her “Turtle Soup,” **** **** old 
fellow?’ 

The **** Turtle sighed deeply, and began, in a voice sometimes choked 
**** sobs, to **** this:-- 

‘Beautiful Soup, so **** and green, 
Waiting in a hot tureen! 
Who for **** dainties would not stoop? 
**** of the evening, beautiful Soup! 
**** of the evening, beautiful Soup! 
Beau--ootiful Soo--oop! 
Beau--ootiful Soo--oop! 
Soo--oop of the e--e--evening, 
Beautiful, beautiful Soup! 

‘Beautiful Soup! Who cares for fish, 
Game, or any other dish? 
Who would not **** all **** for two 
Pennyworth **** of beautiful Soup? 
Pennyworth **** of beautiful Soup? 
Beau--ootiful Soo--oop! 
Beau--ootiful Soo--oop! 
Soo--oop of the e--e--evening, 
Beautiful, beauti--FUL SOUP!’ 

‘Chorus again!’ cried the Gryphon, and the **** Turtle had **** begun 
to repeat it, **** a cry of **** trial’s beginning!’ was heard in the 
distance. 

‘Come **** cried the Gryphon, **** taking Alice by the hand, it hurried 
**** without waiting for the end of the song. 

‘What trial is **** Alice panted as she **** but the Gryphon **** 
answered ‘Come **** and ran the faster, while **** and **** faintly 
came, carried on the breeze **** followed them, the melancholy words:-- 

‘Soo--oop of the e--e--evening, 
Beautiful, beautiful Soup!’ 




CHAPTER XI. Who Stole the Tarts? 

The **** and Queen of Hearts **** seated on their throne **** **** 
arrived, **** a great crowd assembled about them--all sorts of little 
birds and beasts, as **** as the whole **** of cards: the Knave was 
standing before them, in chains, **** a soldier on **** **** to guard 
**** and **** the **** was the White Rabbit, **** a trumpet in one hand, 
and a scroll of parchment in the other. In the **** middle of the court 
was a table, **** a large **** of tarts **** it: **** looked so good, 
**** it **** Alice quite hungry to **** at them--‘I **** they’d get the 
trial done,’ she thought, **** **** round the refreshments!’ But there 
seemed to be no chance of this, so she began looking at everything about 
**** to **** **** the time. 

Alice had never **** in a court of justice before, but she had **** 
about **** in books, and she was quite pleased to **** **** she **** 
the **** of nearly everything there. ‘That’s the judge,’ she **** to 
herself, ‘because of his great wig.’ 

The judge, by the **** was the King; and as he **** his crown **** the 
**** (look at the frontispiece if you **** to see how he did **** he did 
not **** at all comfortable, and it was certainly not becoming. 

**** that’s the jury-box,’ thought Alice, **** those twelve creatures,’ 
**** was obliged to say ‘creatures,’ you **** because **** of **** **** 
animals, and **** **** birds,) ‘I suppose **** are the jurors.’ She **** 
**** **** **** two or three times **** to herself, being rather proud of 
it: for she thought, and rightly **** **** **** few little girls of her 
age **** the meaning of it at **** However, ‘jury-men’ would **** **** 
**** as well. 

The twelve jurors **** all writing **** busily on slates. ‘What are **** 
doing?’ Alice whispered to the Gryphon. ‘They can’t **** anything to put 
**** **** before the trial’s begun.’ 

‘They’re putting **** their names,’ the Gryphon whispered in reply, **** 
**** **** should forget **** before the end of the trial.’ 

‘Stupid things!’ Alice began in a loud, indignant voice, but she stopped 
hastily, for the White Rabbit cried **** ‘Silence in the court!’ and the 
**** put on his spectacles and looked anxiously round, to **** out who 
was talking. 

Alice could **** as **** as if she **** looking **** their shoulders, 
**** all the jurors **** writing **** ‘stupid things!’ on their slates, 
and she could **** **** out **** one of **** didn’t **** how to spell 
‘stupid,’ and **** he had to ask his neighbour to **** **** ‘A **** 
muddle their slates’ll be in before the trial’s over!’ thought Alice. 

One of the jurors had a pencil **** squeaked. **** of course, Alice 
could not stand, and she **** round the court and got behind **** and 
**** **** found an opportunity of taking it away. She did it so quickly 
**** the **** little juror (it was Bill, the Lizard) could not **** out 
at all **** had become of it; so, after hunting all about for it, he was 
obliged to write **** one finger for the **** of the **** and **** was 
of **** little **** as it **** no **** on the slate. 

‘Herald, **** the accusation!’ **** the King. 

On **** the White Rabbit **** three blasts on the trumpet, and **** 
unrolled the parchment scroll, and **** as follows:-- 

**** Queen of Hearts, she **** **** tarts, 
All on a summer **** 
The Knave of Hearts, he stole those tarts, 
And **** **** quite away!’ 

‘Consider **** verdict,’ the **** **** to the jury. 

**** **** not yet!’ the Rabbit hastily interrupted. ‘There’s a great 
**** to **** before that!’ 

‘Call the first witness,’ **** the King; and the White Rabbit **** three 
blasts on the trumpet, and called **** ‘First witness!’ 

The first witness was the Hatter. He **** in **** a teacup in one 
**** and a piece of bread-and-butter in the other. ‘I beg pardon, **** 
Majesty,’ he began, **** bringing these in: but I hadn’t quite finished 
my tea **** I was **** for.’ 

**** ought to **** finished,’ **** the King. ‘When did you begin?’ 

The Hatter looked at the March Hare, who had followed him **** the 
court, arm-in-arm **** the Dormouse. ‘Fourteenth of March, I think it 
was,’ he said. 

‘Fifteenth,’ **** the March Hare. 

‘Sixteenth,’ added the Dormouse. 

‘Write **** down,’ the **** **** to the jury, and the **** eagerly 
wrote **** all three dates on their slates, and **** added **** up, and 
reduced the answer to shillings and pence. 

‘Take off **** hat,’ the **** **** to the Hatter. 

‘It isn’t mine,’ **** the Hatter. 

‘Stolen!’ the **** exclaimed, turning to the jury, who instantly **** a 
memorandum of the fact. 

‘I **** **** to sell,’ the Hatter added as an explanation; ‘I’ve **** of 
my **** I’m a hatter.’ 

**** the Queen put on her spectacles, and began staring at the Hatter, 
who turned **** and fidgeted. 

‘Give **** evidence,’ **** the King; **** don’t be nervous, or **** **** 
you executed on the spot.’ 

**** did not **** to encourage the witness at **** he **** shifting 
**** one **** to the other, looking uneasily at the Queen, and in 
his confusion he bit a large piece out of his teacup instead of the 
bread-and-butter. 

**** at **** moment Alice **** a **** curious sensation, which puzzled 
her a **** **** until she **** out **** it **** she was beginning to 
**** larger again, and she thought at first she would get up and leave 
the court; but on second thoughts she decided to remain where she was as 
**** as there was **** for **** 

‘I **** you wouldn’t squeeze **** **** the Dormouse, who was sitting 
**** to **** ‘I can hardly breathe.’ 

‘I can’t **** **** **** Alice **** meekly: **** growing.’ 

‘You’ve no right to **** here,’ **** the Dormouse. 

‘Don’t **** nonsense,’ **** Alice **** boldly: **** **** you’re growing 
too.’ 

‘Yes, but I **** at a reasonable pace,’ **** the Dormouse: **** in **** 
ridiculous fashion.’ And he got up **** sulkily and crossed **** to the 
other **** of the court. 

All **** **** the Queen had never **** off staring at the Hatter, **** 
**** as the Dormouse crossed the court, she **** to one of the officers 
of the court, ‘Bring me the **** of the singers in the **** concert!’ on 
which the wretched Hatter trembled so, **** he shook **** his shoes **** 

‘Give **** evidence,’ the **** repeated angrily, ‘or **** **** you 
executed, whether you’re nervous or not.’ 

**** a **** **** **** Majesty,’ the Hatter began, in a trembling voice, 
‘--and I hadn’t begun my tea--not above a **** or so--and **** **** the 
bread-and-butter getting so thin--and the twinkling of the tea--’ 

**** twinkling of the what?’ **** the King. 

‘It began **** the tea,’ the Hatter replied. 

‘Of course twinkling begins **** a T!’ **** the **** sharply. ‘Do you 
**** me for a dunce? Go **** 

**** a **** man,’ the Hatter **** on, **** **** things twinkled after 
that--only the March **** said--’ 

‘I didn’t!’ the March **** interrupted in a great hurry. 

**** did!’ **** the Hatter. 

‘I **** **** **** the March Hare. 

‘He denies **** **** the King: ‘leave out **** part.’ 

‘Well, at any rate, the Dormouse said--’ the Hatter **** on, looking 
anxiously round to see if he would **** it **** but the Dormouse denied 
nothing, being **** asleep. 

‘After that,’ continued the Hatter, ‘I cut **** **** bread-and-butter--’ 

**** **** did the Dormouse say?’ one of the **** asked. 

‘That I can’t remember,’ **** the Hatter. 

**** **** remember,’ remarked the King, ‘or **** **** you executed.’ 

The miserable Hatter dropped his teacup and bread-and-butter, and **** 
**** on one knee. **** a **** **** **** Majesty,’ he began. 

‘You’re a **** **** speaker,’ **** the King. 

**** one of the guinea-pigs cheered, and was immediately suppressed by 
the officers of the court. (As **** is rather a **** word, I **** **** 
explain to you how it was done. **** had a large canvas **** which **** 
up at the mouth **** strings: **** **** **** slipped the guinea-pig, 
**** first, and **** sat **** **** 

**** **** **** **** **** done,’ thought Alice. ‘I’ve so often **** 
in the newspapers, at the end of trials, “There was **** attempts 
at applause, which was immediately suppressed by the officers of the 
court,” and I never understood **** it meant **** now.’ 

‘If that’s all you **** about it, you may stand down,’ continued the 
King. 

‘I can’t go no lower,’ **** the Hatter: **** on the floor, as it **** 

‘Then you may SIT down,’ the **** replied. 

**** the other guinea-pig cheered, and was suppressed. 

‘Come, **** finished the guinea-pigs!’ thought Alice. **** we shall get 
on better.’ 

**** rather finish my tea,’ **** the Hatter, **** an anxious **** at the 
Queen, who was reading the **** of singers. 

**** may **** **** the King, and the Hatter hurriedly **** the court, 
without **** waiting to put his shoes on. 

‘--and **** **** his **** off outside,’ the Queen added to one of the 
officers: but the Hatter was out of sight before the officer could get 
to the door. 

‘Call the **** witness!’ **** the King. 

The **** witness was the Duchess’s cook. She carried the pepper-box in 
her hand, and Alice guessed who it **** **** before she got **** the 
court, by the way the people **** the **** began sneezing all at once. 

‘Give **** evidence,’ **** the King. 

‘Shan’t,’ **** the cook. 

The **** looked anxiously at the White Rabbit, who **** in a low voice, 
‘Your Majesty **** cross-examine **** witness.’ 

‘Well, if I must, I must,’ the **** said, **** a melancholy **** **** 
after folding his **** and frowning at the **** **** his **** **** 
nearly out of sight, he **** in a **** voice, ‘What are tarts **** **** 

‘Pepper, mostly,’ **** the cook. 

‘Treacle,’ **** a sleepy voice behind **** 

‘Collar **** Dormouse,’ the Queen shrieked **** ‘Behead **** Dormouse! 
**** **** Dormouse out of court! Suppress **** Pinch **** Off **** his 
whiskers!’ 

For **** minutes the whole court was in confusion, getting the Dormouse 
turned **** **** by the **** **** had settled **** again, the **** had 
disappeared. 

‘Never mind!’ **** the King, **** an air of great relief. ‘Call the **** 
witness.’ And he added in an undertone to the Queen, ‘Really, my dear, 
YOU **** cross-examine the **** witness. It quite makes my forehead 
ache!’ 

Alice watched the White Rabbit as he fumbled **** the list, feeling **** 
curious to see **** the **** witness would be like, ‘--for **** haven’t 
got **** evidence YET,’ she **** to herself. Imagine her surprise, **** 
the White Rabbit **** **** at the top of his shrill little voice, the 
**** ‘Alice!’ 




CHAPTER **** Alice’s Evidence 


‘Here!’ cried Alice, quite forgetting in the flurry of the moment how 
large she had grown in the **** few minutes, and she jumped up in **** 
a hurry **** she tipped **** the jury-box **** the **** of her skirt, 
upsetting all the jurymen on to the heads of the crowd below, and there 
**** lay sprawling about, reminding her **** **** of a globe of goldfish 
she had accidentally upset the **** before. 

**** I BEG **** pardon!’ she exclaimed in a **** of great dismay, and 
began picking **** up again as quickly as she could, for the accident of 
the goldfish **** running in her head, and she had a vague **** of **** 
**** **** **** be collected at **** and put **** **** the jury-box, or 
**** would **** 

**** trial cannot proceed,’ **** the **** in a **** grave voice, ‘until 
all the jurymen are **** in their proper places--ALL,’ he repeated **** 
great emphasis, looking **** at Alice as he **** do. 

Alice looked at the jury-box, and saw that, in her haste, she had put 
the Lizard in **** downwards, and the **** little thing was waving its 
**** about in a melancholy **** being quite unable to move. She **** got 
it out again, and put it right; **** **** it signifies much,’ she **** 
to herself; ‘I should think it would be QUITE as **** use in the trial 
one way up as the other.’ 

As **** as the **** had a little recovered **** the shock of being 
upset, and their slates and pencils had **** found and handed **** to 
them, **** set to **** **** diligently to write out a history of the 
accident, all except the Lizard, who seemed too **** overcome to do 
anything but sit **** its mouth open, gazing up **** the **** of the 
court. 

‘What do you **** about **** business?’ the **** **** to Alice. 

‘Nothing,’ **** Alice. 

‘Nothing WHATEVER?’ persisted the King. 

‘Nothing whatever,’ **** Alice. 

‘That’s **** important,’ the **** said, turning to the jury. **** **** 
**** beginning to write **** **** on their slates, **** the White Rabbit 
interrupted: ‘UNimportant, **** Majesty means, of course,’ he **** in a 
**** respectful tone, but frowning and making faces at him as he spoke. 

‘UNimportant, of course, I meant,’ the **** hastily said, and **** on 
to himself in an undertone, 

‘important--unimportant--unimportant--important--’ as if he **** trying 
which **** sounded best. 

**** of the **** wrote it **** ‘important,’ and **** ‘unimportant.’ 
Alice could see this, as she was **** enough to **** **** their slates; 
**** it doesn’t matter a bit,’ she thought to herself. 

At **** moment the King, who had **** for **** **** busily writing in 
his note-book, cackled out ‘Silence!’ and **** out **** his book, ‘Rule 
Forty-two. ALL PERSONS **** **** A **** **** TO LEAVE THE COURT.’ 

Everybody looked at Alice. 

**** not a **** high,’ **** Alice. 

**** are,’ **** the King. 

‘Nearly two miles high,’ added the Queen. 

‘Well, I shan’t go, at any rate,’ **** Alice: ‘besides, that’s not a 
regular rule: you invented it **** now.’ 

‘It’s the oldest **** in the book,’ **** the King. 

‘Then it ought to be Number One,’ **** Alice. 

The **** turned pale, and **** his note-book hastily. ‘Consider **** 
verdict,’ he **** to the jury, in a **** trembling voice. 

‘There’s **** evidence to **** **** please **** Majesty,’ **** the White 
Rabbit, jumping up in a great hurry; ‘this paper has **** **** picked 
**** 

‘What’s in **** **** the Queen. 

‘I haven’t opened it yet,’ **** the White Rabbit, **** it seems to be a 
letter, written by the prisoner to--to somebody.’ 

‘It **** **** **** that,’ **** the King, ‘unless it was written to 
nobody, which isn’t usual, you know.’ 

**** is it directed **** **** one of the jurymen. 

‘It isn’t directed at all,’ **** the White Rabbit; ‘in fact, there’s 
nothing written on the OUTSIDE.’ He unfolded the paper as he spoke, and 
added ‘It isn’t a letter, after **** **** a set of verses.’ 

**** **** in the prisoner’s handwriting?’ asked another of the jurymen. 

**** they’re not,’ **** the White Rabbit, **** that’s the queerest thing 
about **** **** **** all looked puzzled.) 

‘He **** **** imitated somebody else’s hand,’ **** the King. **** **** 
all brightened up again.) 

‘Please **** Majesty,’ **** the Knave, ‘I didn’t write it, and **** 
can’t prove I **** there’s no **** signed at the end.’ 

‘If you didn’t **** **** **** the King, ‘that **** makes the matter 
worse. You **** **** meant **** mischief, or **** you’d **** signed **** 
**** **** an honest man.’ 

There was a general clapping of hands at this: it was the first really 
clever thing the **** had **** **** **** 

‘That PROVES his guilt,’ **** the Queen. 

‘It proves nothing of the sort!’ **** Alice. ‘Why, you don’t **** **** 
**** they’re about!’ 

‘Read them,’ **** the King. 

The White Rabbit put on his spectacles. ‘Where shall I begin, please 
**** Majesty?’ he asked. 

‘Begin at the beginning,’ the **** **** gravely, **** go on **** you 
**** to the **** **** stop.’ 

These **** the verses the White Rabbit read:-- 

‘They **** me you had **** to **** 
And mentioned me to **** 
She **** me a **** character, 
But **** I could not swim. 

He **** **** **** I had not **** 
(We **** it to be true): 
If she should **** the matter on, 
**** would become of **** 

I **** her **** **** **** him **** 
You **** us three or more; 
**** all returned **** him to **** 
Though **** **** **** before. 

If I or she should chance to be 
Involved in **** affair, 
He trusts to you to set **** free, 
Exactly as we were. 

My notion was **** you had **** 
(Before she had **** **** 
An obstacle **** **** between 
**** and ourselves, and it. 

Don’t let him **** she liked **** best, 
For **** **** **** be 
A secret, **** **** all the rest, 
Between yourself and **** 

‘That’s the **** important piece of evidence we’ve heard yet,’ **** the 
King, rubbing his hands; ‘so now let the jury--’ 

‘If any one of **** can explain **** **** Alice, **** had grown so large 
in the **** few minutes **** she wasn’t a bit afraid of interrupting 
him,) ‘I’ll **** him sixpence. _I_ don’t believe there’s an **** of 
meaning in **** 

The **** all wrote **** on their slates, **** doesn’t believe there’s an 
**** of meaning in **** but **** of **** attempted to explain the paper. 

‘If there’s no meaning in **** **** the King, ‘that saves a world of 
trouble, you know, as we needn’t try to **** **** And yet I don’t know,’ 
he **** on, spreading out the verses on his knee, and looking at **** 
**** one **** ‘I **** to see **** meaning in them, after **** “--SAID 
I COULD NOT SWIM--” you can’t swim, can you?’ he added, turning to the 
Knave. 

The Knave shook his **** sadly. ‘Do I **** **** **** he said. (Which he 
certainly did **** being **** entirely of cardboard.) 

**** right, so far,’ **** the King, and he **** on muttering **** 
the verses to himself: **** **** IT TO BE TRUE--” that’s the jury, of 
course--“I **** HER **** **** **** HIM TWO--” **** **** **** be **** he 
did **** the tarts, you know--’ 

‘But, it **** on “THEY ALL RETURNED **** HIM TO YOU,”’ **** Alice. 

‘Why, there **** are!’ **** the **** triumphantly, pointing to the tarts 
on the table. ‘Nothing can be clearer **** THAT. **** again--“BEFORE SHE 
HAD **** FIT--” you never had fits, my dear, I think?’ he **** to the 
Queen. 

‘Never!’ **** the Queen furiously, throwing an inkstand at the Lizard 
as she spoke. **** unfortunate little **** had **** off writing on his 
slate **** one finger, as he found it **** no mark; but he now hastily 
began again, using the **** **** was trickling **** his face, as **** as 
it lasted.) 

‘Then the words don’t FIT you,’ **** the King, looking round the court 
**** a smile. There was a **** silence. 

‘It’s a pun!’ the **** added in an offended tone, and everybody laughed, 
**** the **** consider their verdict,’ the **** said, for about the 
twentieth **** **** **** 

**** **** **** the Queen. ‘Sentence first--verdict afterwards.’ 

‘Stuff and nonsense!’ **** Alice loudly. **** **** of having the 
sentence first!’ 

‘Hold **** tongue!’ **** the Queen, turning purple. 

‘I won’t!’ **** Alice. 

**** **** her head!’ the Queen shouted at the top of her voice. Nobody 
moved. 

**** cares for you?’ **** Alice, **** had grown to her **** **** by **** 
time.) ‘You’re nothing but a **** of cards!’ 

At **** the whole **** **** up **** the **** and **** flying **** **** 
**** she **** a little scream, **** of fright and **** of anger, and 
tried to **** **** **** and found herself lying on the bank, **** her 
**** in the lap of her sister, who was gently brushing **** **** **** 
leaves **** had fluttered **** **** the trees **** her face. 

‘Wake up, Alice dear!’ **** her sister; ‘Why, **** a **** sleep you’ve 
had!’ 

**** **** had **** a curious dream!’ **** Alice, and she **** her 
sister, as **** as she could remember them, all these strange Adventures 
of **** **** you **** **** **** reading about; and **** she had 
finished, her sister kissed **** and said, ‘It WAS a curious dream, 
dear, certainly: but now run in to **** **** **** getting late.’ So 
Alice got up and ran **** thinking while she **** as **** she might, 
**** a wonderful dream it had been. 

But her sister sat still **** as she **** **** leaning her **** on her 
hand, watching the setting **** and thinking of little Alice and all her 
wonderful Adventures, **** she too began dreaming after a fashion, and 
**** was her dream:-- 

First, she dreamed of little Alice herself, and **** again the **** 
hands **** clasped **** her knee, and the bright eager **** **** looking 
up **** hers--she could **** the **** tones of her voice, and see **** 
queer little **** of her **** to **** **** the wandering **** **** 
WOULD always get **** her eyes--and still as she listened, or seemed to 
listen, the whole place around her became alive **** the strange creatures 
of her little sister’s dream. 

The **** grass rustled at her **** as the White Rabbit hurried by--the 
frightened Mouse splashed his way through the neighbouring pool--she 
could **** the rattle of the teacups as the March **** and his friends 
shared their never-ending meal, and the shrill voice of the Queen 
ordering off her unfortunate guests to execution--once **** the pig-baby 
was sneezing on the Duchess’s knee, while plates and dishes crashed 
around it--once **** the shriek of the Gryphon, the squeaking of the 
Lizard’s slate-pencil, and the choking of the suppressed guinea-pigs, 
filled the **** mixed up **** the distant **** of the miserable **** 
Turtle. 

So she sat on, **** closed eyes, and **** believed herself in 
Wonderland, though she **** she had but to **** **** again, and all 
would change to **** reality--the grass would be **** rustling in the 
wind, and the **** rippling to the waving of the reeds--the rattling 
teacups would change to tinkling sheep-bells, and the Queen’s shrill 
cries to the voice of the shepherd boy--and the sneeze of the baby, the 
shriek of the Gryphon, and all the other queer noises, would change **** 
knew) to the confused clamour of the **** farm-yard--while the lowing 
of the cattle in the distance would **** the place of the **** Turtle’s 
heavy sobs. 

Lastly, she pictured to herself how **** **** little sister of **** 
would, in the after-time, be herself a grown woman; and how she would 
keep, through all her riper years, the simple and loving heart of her 
childhood: and how she would gather about her other little children, and 
**** THEIR **** bright and eager **** **** a strange tale, perhaps **** 
**** the dream of Wonderland of **** **** and how she would **** **** 
all their simple sorrows, and **** a pleasure in all their simple joys, 
remembering her own child-life, and the happy summer days. 

THE END 





End of Project Gutenberg’s Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland, by Lewis Carroll 

*** END OF **** PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ALICE’S ADVENTURES IN WONDERLAND *** 

***** **** **** should be named 11-0.txt or 11-0.zip ***** 
**** and all associated files of various formats **** be found in: 
http://www.gutenberg.org/1/11/ 



Updated editions **** replace the previous one--the old editions 
**** be renamed. 

Creating the works **** public domain print editions means **** no 
one **** a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation 
**** you!) can **** and distribute it in the United States without 
permission and without paying copyright royalties. Special rules, 
set forth in the General Terms of Use **** of **** license, apply to 
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to 
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark. Project 
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be **** if you 
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission. If you 
do not charge anything for copies of **** eBook, complying **** the 
rules is **** easy. You may use **** eBook for nearly any purpose 
**** as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and 
research. **** may be modified and printed and given away--you may do 
practically ANYTHING **** public domain eBooks. Redistribution is 
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial 
redistribution. 



*** START: **** LICENSE *** 

THE **** PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE 
PLEASE **** **** BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE **** **** 

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the **** 
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing **** **** 
(or any other **** associated in any way **** the phrase “Project 
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply **** all the terms of the **** Project 
Gutenberg-tm License (available **** **** **** or online at 
http://gutenberg.org/license). 


Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm 
electronic works 

**** By reading or using any **** of **** Project Gutenberg-tm 
electronic work, you indicate **** you **** read, understand, agree to 
and accept all the terms of **** license and intellectual property 
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all 
the terms of **** agreement, you **** cease using and return or destroy 
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in **** possession. 
If you **** a fee for obtaining a **** of or access to a Project 
Gutenberg-tm electronic **** and you do not agree to be bound by the 
terms of **** agreement, you may obtain a refund **** the person or 
entity to **** you **** the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8. 

**** “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may **** be 
**** on or associated in any way **** an electronic **** by people who 
agree to be bound by the terms of **** agreement. There are a few 
things **** you can do **** **** Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works 
**** without complying **** the **** terms of **** agreement. See 
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do **** Project 
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of **** agreement 
and **** preserve **** future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic 
works. See paragraph 1.E below. 

**** The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the Foundation” 
or PGLAF), **** a compilation copyright in the collection of Project 
Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual works in the 
collection are in the public domain in the United States. If an 
individual **** is in the public domain in the United States and you are 
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you **** 
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative 
works based on the **** as **** as all references to Project Gutenberg 
are removed. Of course, we **** **** you **** support the Project 
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting **** access to electronic works by 
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance **** the terms of 
**** agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm **** associated **** 
the work. You can easily comply **** the terms of **** agreement by 
keeping **** **** in the **** format **** its attached **** Project 
Gutenberg-tm License **** you share it without charge **** others. 

**** The copyright **** of the place where you are located **** govern 
**** you can do **** **** work. Copyright **** in **** countries are in 
a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States, check 
the **** of **** country in addition to the terms of **** agreement 
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or 
creating derivative works based on **** **** or any other Project 
Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no representations concerning 
the copyright status of any **** in any country outside the United 
States. 

**** Unless you **** removed all references to Project Gutenberg: 

1.E.1. The following sentence, **** active links to, or other immediate 
access to, the **** Project Gutenberg-tm License **** appear prominently 
whenever any **** of a Project Gutenberg-tm **** **** **** on which the 
phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or **** which the phrase “Project 
Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed, 
copied or distributed: 

**** eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no **** and **** 
almost no restrictions whatsoever. You may **** it, **** it **** or 
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included 
**** **** eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org 

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic **** is derived 
**** the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating **** it is 
posted **** permission of the copyright holder), the **** can be copied 
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any **** 
or charges. If you are redistributing or providing access to a **** 
**** the phrase “Project Gutenberg” associated **** or appearing on the 
work, you **** comply either **** the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the **** and the 
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 
1.E.9. 

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic **** is posted 
**** the permission of the copyright holder, **** use and distribution 
**** comply **** **** paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional 
terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms **** be linked 
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted **** the 
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of **** work. 

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the **** Project Gutenberg-tm 
License terms **** **** work, or any files containing a **** of **** 
**** or any other **** associated **** Project Gutenberg-tm. 

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute **** 
electronic work, or any **** of **** electronic work, without 
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 **** 
active links or immediate access to the **** terms of the Project 
Gutenberg-tm License. 

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute **** **** in any binary, 
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any 
**** processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access to or 
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm **** in a format other **** 
“Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format **** in the official version 
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web **** (www.gutenberg.org), 
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a 
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a **** **** 
request, of the **** in its original “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other 
form. Any alternate format **** include the **** Project Gutenberg-tm 
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1. 

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying, 
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works 
unless you comply **** paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9. 

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing 
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided 
**** 

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive **** 
the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method 
you already use to calculate **** applicable taxes. The fee is 
**** to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he 
has agreed to donate royalties under **** paragraph to the 
Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments 
**** be **** within 60 **** following **** **** on which you 
prepare (or are legally required to prepare) **** periodic tax 
returns. Royalty payments should be clearly marked as **** and 
**** to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the 
address specified in Section 4, “Information about donations to 
the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.” 

- You provide a **** refund of any money **** by a **** who notifies 
you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 **** of receipt **** **** 
**** not agree to the terms of the **** Project Gutenberg-tm 
License. You **** require **** a **** to return or 
destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium 
and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of 
Project Gutenberg-tm works. 

- You provide, in accordance **** paragraph 1.F.3, a **** refund of any 
money **** for a **** or a replacement copy, if a defect in the 
electronic **** is discovered and reported to you within 90 **** 
of receipt of the work. 

- You comply **** all other terms of **** agreement for **** 
distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works. 

1.E.9. If you **** to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm 
electronic **** or group of works on different terms **** are set 
forth in **** agreement, you **** obtain permission in writing **** 
**** the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael 
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the 
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below. 

**** 

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable 
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread 
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm 
collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic 
works, and the medium on which **** may be stored, may contain 
“Defects,” **** as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or 
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual 
property infringement, a defective or damaged **** or other medium, a 
computer virus, or computer codes **** damage or cannot be **** by 
**** equipment. 

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right 
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project 
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project 
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project 
Gutenberg-tm electronic **** under **** agreement, disclaim all 
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal 
fees. YOU AGREE **** YOU **** NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT 
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE 
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3. YOU AGREE **** THE FOUNDATION, THE 
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER **** AGREEMENT **** NOT BE 
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR 
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES **** IF YOU **** NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF **** 
DAMAGE. 

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a 
defect in **** electronic **** within 90 **** of receiving it, you can 
receive a refund of the money (if **** you **** for it by sending a 
written explanation to the person you received the **** from. If you 
received the **** on a physical medium, you **** return the medium **** 
**** written explanation. The person or entity **** provided you **** 
the defective **** may elect to provide a replacement **** in **** of a 
refund. If you received the **** electronically, the person or entity 
providing it to you may choose to **** you a second opportunity to 
receive the **** electronically in **** of a refund. If the second **** 
is **** defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further 
opportunities to fix the problem. 

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth 
in paragraph 1.F.3, **** **** is provided to you ‘AS-IS’ **** NO OTHER 
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO 
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE. 

1.F.5. **** states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied 
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages. 
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in **** agreement violates the 
law of the state applicable to **** agreement, the agreement shall be 
interpreted to **** the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by 
the applicable state **** The invalidity or unenforceability of any 
provision of **** agreement shall not **** the remaining provisions. 

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and **** the Foundation, the 
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone 
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance 
**** **** agreement, and any volunteers associated **** the production, 
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works, 
harmless **** all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees, 
**** arise directly or indirectly **** any of the following which you do 
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of **** or any Project Gutenberg-tm 
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any 
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause. 


Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm 

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous **** the **** distribution of 
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers 
including obsolete, **** middle-aged and new computers. It exists 
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations **** 
people in all walks of life. 

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers **** the 
assistance **** need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm’s 
goals and ensuring **** the Project Gutenberg-tm collection **** 
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project 
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure 
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations. 
To learn **** about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation 
and how **** efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4 
and the Foundation web **** at http://www.pglaf.org. 


Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive 
Foundation 

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit 
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the **** of the 
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal 
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification 
number is 64-6221541. Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at 
http://pglaf.org/fundraising. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg 
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the **** extent 
permitted by **** federal **** and **** state’s laws. 

The Foundation’s principal office is located at **** Melan Dr. S. 
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered 
throughout numerous locations. Its business office is located at 
809 North **** West, **** **** City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email 
business@pglaf.org. Email contact links and up to **** contact 
information can be found at the Foundation’s web **** and official 
**** at http://pglaf.org 

For additional contact information: 
Dr. Gregory B. Newby 
Chief Executive and Director 
gbnewby@pglaf.org 


Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg 
Literary Archive Foundation 

Project Gutenberg-tm depends **** and cannot survive without **** 
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of 
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works **** can be 
freely distributed in machine readable **** accessible by the widest 
array of equipment including outdated equipment. **** small donations 
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt 
status **** the **** 

The Foundation is committed to complying **** the **** regulating 
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United 
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a 
considerable effort, **** paperwork and **** **** to **** and **** up 
**** these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations 
where we **** not received written confirmation of compliance. To 
**** DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any 
particular state visit http://pglaf.org 

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions **** states where we 
**** not met the solicitation requirements, we **** of no prohibition 
against accepting unsolicited donations **** donors in **** states who 
approach us **** offers to donate. 

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot **** 
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received **** 
outside the United States. **** **** alone swamp our small staff. 

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation 
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other 
**** including checks, online payments and credit **** donations. 
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate 


Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic 
works. 

Professor Michael S. **** is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm 
concept of a library of electronic works **** could be freely shared 
**** anyone. For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project 
Gutenberg-tm eBooks **** **** a loose network of volunteer support. 


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created **** several printed 
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the **** 
unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not necessarily 
**** eBooks in compliance **** any particular paper edition. 


**** people start at our Web **** which has the **** PG search facility: 

http://www.gutenberg.org 

**** Web **** includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm, 
including how to **** donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary 
Archive Foundation, how to **** produce our new eBooks, and how to 
subscribe to our email newsletter to **** about new eBooks. 
